When this story hits the airwaves, it's
going to transform people's opinion
about the CIA and the depths to which
CIA will dive to collect intelligence
that protects Americans. But one of its
own officers became a spy reporting our
secrets to a foreign adversary. My wife
and I were included in an operation to
bait the mole to make a mistake so that
the mole could be found and disclosed.
>> Your wife is here today and you've never
told this story before, have you?
>> No. And your curiosity right now is a
major issue with CIA because they don't
want the world to know who those people
are. It's a dangerous game.
>> Well, obviously my research team tried
to figure out who it was.
>> So, was this the mob?
>> Married CIA spies Andrew and Jihi
Bamante were tasked with unraveling one
of the greatest intelligence operations
in modern history. Their untold story
shows you how to build trust,
manipulate, and thrive under pressure.
What actually happened?
>> A foreign ally contacted CIA and said,
"You have somebody inside your
organization sharing information on
operations, officers, assets to an enemy
country." They deployed us to the
country and crafted new identities, new
aliases so that we could build new
sources of intelligence and try to find
the mole.
>> And we were really successful in doing
that.
>> Nobody felt like they were in imminent
danger. But then that changed. My
presence in the enemy country became
known. I called G and said, "I'm coming
home early."
>> And from that, I knew that something was
wrong because it is very real that you
can be disappeared by a foreign
adversary.
>> Or worse, being captured and the
president can plausibly deny that you're
CIA. So, I had to try to escape this
country. But everything went wrong.
>> And what happens next?
>> A horrible story.
So,
[Music]
>> this is the first time I'm setting you
at home a challenge when you listen to
this episode. Can you figure out which
country Andrew and Jihi were undercover
in as spies from what they say? But
also, our team here have figured out
that the mole in the CIA was one of
these three people. Can you figure out
from what they say which person was the
mole? It might make sense for you at
this moment to screenshot these three
faces and the details below so you can
remember their profiles. And by the end
of the conversation, I want you to
comment below which country you thought
Andrew was undercovering as a spy and
which one of these people was the mole
within the CIA. Let's do this. Listen to
my regular listeners. I know you don't
like it when I ask you to subscribe at
the start of these conversations. I
don't like saying I don't like it being
in there. None of us like it. It's
frustrating. Do you know what's also
frustrating? It's also frustrating when
I go into the back end of a YouTube
channel and I see that 56% of you that
listen frequently to this podcast
haven't yet subscribed and so many of
you don't even know that you haven't
subscribed because I see in the comment
section you say to me, you go, I didn't
even realize I didn't subscribe and that
actually fuels the show. It's basically
like you're making a donation to the
show. So that's why I ask all the time
because it enables us to build and build
and build and build and we're going for
the long term here. So all I'd ask you
is if you've seen this show before and
you like it, help me help my team here.
Hit the subscribe button and we'll
continue to build this show for you.
That's my promise. Thank you to all of
you guys that do subscribe. Means the
world to me. Let's get on with the show.
[Music]
>> Andrew,
you've never told this story before,
have you?
>> No, I have never told the story of my
own operational background. It's been uh
it's been something that CI has
forbidden for a long time.
And what's written in this book has
taken you a long time to get approved by
the CIA.
>> Correct. So, uh, all CIA officers sign a
lifetime secrecy agreement. And that
secrecy agreement, uh, gives CIA the
right to to approve or disapprove any
operational elements of our background
that are still classified and that fit
under this very kind of narrow rubric of
sources and methods. Sources and methods
of active intelligence collection.
because of my time at CIA, my work at
CIA, and the sensitivity of that work, I
just kind of assumed I would never be
able to talk about it. And then all that
changed with the first Trump
administration.
>> What was the CIA's response when you
said that you wanted to talk about what
you're going to talk about today?
>> Well, that's what's interesting. They
had two different responses. When I
first submitted the request in 2019 to
CIA to write about my operational
background, we went through kind of some
normal bureaucratic back and forth and
they ultimately said yes, you can write
about it in in detail. And then in 2021
when we submitted the manuscript and it
was complete, the world started to
change. In 2022, uh, multiple major
issues, uh, erupted between major
adversaries of the United States and CIA
came back and and removed their previous
permission. Uh, they basically said that
in light of current geopolitics,
everything in the book was now
reclassified.
>> How did you get the CIA to change their
mind so that you could release this book
and talk about what you're going to talk
about today?
>> We engaged with an attorney, one of the
top attorneys in the space of classified
information and publishing information.
So the attorney believed that because of
the effort that my wife and I had put
into the book, CIA would back off. And
ultimately that is what they did. When
we threatened them with a First
Amendment lawsuit, they came back and
said, "We don't want to go down that
road. We think we can collaborate on
this. We'll approve your book uh and you
can move forward."
>> Why do you think they didn't want you to
publish this book and this story to get
out?
>> When this story hits the airwaves, it's
going to transform people's opinion
about CIA in two big ways. First,
they'll understand that CIA is not what
the movies portray it to be. It's not
superhuman spies who go out there like
James Bond or Jason Bourne who are one
man against the world. That's not how
espionage works. Espionage is a team
sport. You have wins, you have losses.
The second thing is they'll actually
they'll start to understand the depth to
which CIA will dive to collect
intelligence that protects Americans.
Inside this book, we talk about a mole
that actually penetrated CIA that CIA
has never acknowledged. Inside this
book, we talk about new tactics that CIA
learned from terrorism and then used
against our own most strategic
adversaries. I don't think people
recognize that CIA is morally ambivalent
to how it executes espionage operations.
The goal is to keep Americans safe.
>> When you say in this book you disclose
that there was a mole within the CIA,
what does that mean for someone that
doesn't know what a mole in the CIA is?
One of the worst things that can happen
to an intelligence service is that one
of its own officers
becomes a spy for a foreign adversary.
That is what I'm referring to when I
talk about a mole.
>> And you were involved in that operation
to find the mole within the CIA.
>> Correct. More specifically, my wife and
I were included in in an operation to
kind of f it out the mole to bait and
and tempt the mole to make a mistake so
that the mole could be found and
disclosed.
>> And your wife is here today,
>> correct?
>> And we're going to bring her in and talk
to her as well. But for the for anyone
that doesn't know your backstory, which
would be pretty remarkable seeing as
you've been on this channel now a few
times. Um, could you give me a whistle
stop tour of your professional
background up until the point that you
met Jihi?
>> Yeah, absolutely. So, I'm from a rural
place in Pennsylvania. Uh was like the
only brown kid in a white high school,
but I ended up going to an air a
military academy. I went to the Air
Force Academy. And from the Air Force
Academy, I go into the Air Force. The
Air Force teaches me how to fly. They
teach me a foreign language. And then
they teach me about nuclear weapons and
nuclear missiles. And I serve as a
nuclear missile officer in the Air
Force. So, CIA picked me up. Uh and in
my first my first day on the job in CIA,
that's the day that I met my wife. Um
she was sitting in the back of the
classroom. I of course worked my way to
the front of the classroom and uh and
from there our training just kind of
overlapped and we we became close. Well,
Ji is here so I'd like to hear her
version of events.
>> Was there any inconsistency in the story
he told?
What was your perspective? There's
always another perspective. And are you
allowed to date in the CIA?
>> Oh, yeah. It's encouraged. Um because
it's really hard when you're keeping so
many secrets to date somebody outside of
the CIA and not be able to tell that
because we had friends who did that who
did that. You have to keep your whole
life secret. So you're lying to them
about where you're going and what you do
>> dayto day
>> dayto day every single day. So you're
building a relationship
>> and lying all the time and it's really
difficult. So, if you date within the
CIA, you know, if you're in different
divisions or whatever, like maybe you
can't talk about everything in detail,
but you at least know what's going on.
You know why somebody's going TDY or
where they're going for a training um
session or
>> we can explain to each other like, "Hey,
I'm going to go work with the Spanish.
I'm going to go work with the with the
Canadians."
>> Mhm.
>> But when you're dating somebody on the
outside, you can't say those things. So,
it becomes, "I'm going on a business
meeting. I'm going on a trip." crazy.
>> And we've had many friends who have had
relationships explode or melt down
because the the partner starts to
>> ask very logical questions. We had one
good friend of ours who was an outsider
who was dating one of our good friends
who was an insider
>> and she pulled me aside one day and she
was like, you know, he goes on all these
business trips but he never takes any
suits. She's like, I think he's cheating
on me. And I was like, "No, he's
actually going to a tactical training
course where you don't need to wear
anything except BDUs, but I can see your
concerns." So, you have to walk your
like there's a lot of walking people off
a cliff because they start to come to
the wrong conclusion
>> about what their actual uh partner is
doing.
>> Chihi, what's your journey into the CIA?
>> Mine was kind of an unexpected journey
because I went into social work working
with um survivors of torture from other
countries, with refugees, with asyles.
But before I got that job, I'd actually
I'd spent my entire last year of grad
school going to job fairs. And I wanted
what I really wanted was to work for the
federal government for like the larger
mission for the United States, for like
the people of the United States. But
then nobody was calling me back. And I
was like, okay. I was like, I'll just
submit an application, like an online
application to CIA, which I thought was
funny. And then a few months later, I
got a call back. She was like, come to
the information session. So, I went in
like a random hotel with these like
nondescript signs outside and you walk
in and you're like, I don't know if I'm
in the in the right place. And then they
close the door and they're like, welcome
to the CIA recruiting session. And
you're like, this is so bizarre.
>> And um
>> do they tell you what your role is? Cuz
I know there's several different roles
in in the CIA.
>> Mhm. Targeters began
uh during the war on terror. And because
what they initially did was target
individuals for capture or kill for the
military.
>> Okay. So what what does that mean? They
targeted people for capture or kill for
the military. So you would
>> find the person to capture or kill.
>> Yes.
>> In a foreign country.
>> Yes. And so because you know everybody
else is doing their job of you know
logistics or weapons or fighting or
strategy. So the targeted position was
really important because it takes time
to to go through all this data to piece
together this puzzle of who is
important, who is important to capture,
who's important to kill, and how do you
get to them? The how do you get to them
is the piece that like everybody else
wants to know, but they don't really
have time to do that and their other
job. So they carved out this targeter
role. So one person can do all this
research and identify and the you know
terrorists were really fascinating
because they had how their organizations
were structured and so you really needed
somebody who could look I mean it's like
u like targeting the mafia right like
everybody has a role like there's a big
organization everybody has a role it is
in your favor if you're t if you're
going after them to find out who who's
who connected to who how Can you get to
different people? Cuz you're never going
to be able to just get the top person
right away. So, how do you get there?
Right.
>> And you became a targeter.
>> Yes.
>> So, your job was to figure out who to
capture and kill
>> or capture or
>> or
>> And what was your role in the CIA? How
was your role different? Can you explain
it for a layman?
>> Yeah. So, where Ji was trying to find
the individuals that were of interest,
my job was to learn what to do after a
target identified those individuals. How
do you actually meet the person? How do
you befriend the person? How do you win
their trust? How do you collect their
secrets? What's known as a a field
officer, an operations officer, a case
officer? Those are the different
terminologies that we use internally.
But you essentially have every case is
kind of handed over from person to
person. So raw information, sometimes
open source information is handed to a
targeter who creates a profile, a
dossier, a targeting package who hands
it to an operations officer who goes out
and actually makes that first contact.
And then when first contact is made, we
pass all the information back and it
goes back to all the same people to
build the next package for the next
target.
>> So jihei would identify the individual
and then your job was to fly overseas,
go undercover and make first contact
with that individual to extract
intelligence from them.
>> And not at first by the time that CIA
started utilizing us as a tandem couple.
A tandem couple is a term that means a
married, truly married, CIA trained
couple. When we started becoming a
tandem couple, that's how we were a
one-two punch for operations. Prior to
that, we were in separate offices in
separate divisions doing separate work.
So, we got along uh and we were
complimentary because I understood the
challenges of her job and she understood
the challenges of my job, which made
both of us better working with our
counterparts in our different offices.
>> So, where where does the story begin?
Andy,
you know, you you wrote this book to
tell a story. So, I'm asking you the
question. Usually, I' I'd hazard a guess
where to start, but where does this
story begin? From my perspective, the
story really starts on uh on I think it
was a winter day when we were both
called in to a counter intelligence
office that was a massive oak table. It
was a it was a senior executive
leadership type of room.
But there were only three people there.
It was she, it was me, and it was the
leader of what's known as Falcon House,
which is this group of specialists
inside of CIA focused on one particular
adversary, an adversary that we've had
to codeename Falcon to maintain
confidentiality with CIA.
>> And so Falcon is a country basically.
>> Falcon is a country. Correct. And that
leader
revealed to us that they believed there
was a penetration, a mole that was
inside of Falcon House, inside of CIA,
and that they needed us to agree to do
an operation so that the mole will make
a mistake here. Cuz if the mole makes a
mistake here, we'll find him. But we
can't have you be here cuz if you're
here, the mole will find you. And then
we don't know what happens if the mole
finds you. So, we're going to send you
across the world to go work in this
other country, Falcon being the country,
while we here as the experts in
Washington DC try to find the mole. And
that was privileged information that
neither of us as junior officers ever
thought we would hear. And I think that
I know for me I was kind of giddy with
excitement and gi was a little bit more
apprehensive with this can't be real.
But that was for me that's where the
story starts is when these two people
her and with her anxiety disorder and
and me with my kind of lackluster CIA
career when we got pulled into this
office that was clearly outside of our
league and invited to do this operation
um without that first meeting Shadow
Cell would have never happened. So from
that moment onwards, how long was it
before you flew to the foreign country
in question?
And what was your objective when you got
to that foreign for foreign country? So
I guess it's like a subobjective to find
the mole and there was another main
objective which was going to help find
the mole.
>> You got to I mean you're using great
terminology. There were primary
objectives and secondary objectives. And
the primary objective was to build a new
set of reporting assets, a new source of
intelligence, several new sources of
intelligence in Falcon, the actual
country. And to to help you frame what
Falcon is, there's only a handful of
countries that are true stark
adversaries to the United States. Every
one of those countries has limited to no
diplomatic relationship with the United
States. That's how hostile they are. Any
one of those countries could be Falcon.
The reason that we have to codeame the
country is because CIA in today's
geopolitical world has has demanded we
don't disclose the name of the country.
So we call it Falcon.
>> What are the United States adversaries
where we don't have any relationship
with them? There's also like North
Korea, there's Russia, there's Iran we
know of. Are there any others?
>> Cuba.
>> Cuba. Mhm.
>> Yeah. There's and those are uh there's a
mix there of countries that we do have a
relationship with, but it's not a warm
relationship versus countries we have no
relationship with. So, we have no
relationship with North Korea.
>> We have a cold relationship with Russia,
>> right? We have a cold relationship with
China. We have no relationship with
Iran.
>> So, they're all considered hard targets,
but of various levels.
>> Okay. So this the objective is the
primary objective is to build a new team
in this country, but the subobjective is
in building the team, you're going to
find out hopefully who the mole is
because the mole is going to make a
mistake.
>> The mole's going to try to find us
because the mole's job is to prevent CIA
from collecting secrets about Falcon.
Cuz the mole is working for Falcon
intelligence.
>> The mole is working for that country,
>> right? The mole is part of the CIA but
working for the adversarial country.
>> Bingo. Which is the worst combination
you can have. Um, so some of the most
famous moles in history are Aldrick
Ames. Aldra games was a CIA penetration
that worked for the Russians. Robert
Hansen. Robert Hansen was an FBI
penetration that worked for the
Russians. So these are famous moles in
history. We were essentially being told
that these earthshattering 1990s era
moles
were were still relevant, but now in
2010ish,
there was a new one that had made its
way into CIA and and that's a big deal.
So, it was a very exciting reveal for me
because it meant that we were not just
doing something that was relevant and
interesting inside of CIA. We're doing
something that is quite possibly the
most important work that can be done
inside CIA at this moment in time.
>> How did the CIA know there was a mole?
>> There's a lot of complexity there that
is part of why they didn't want us to
write this book. But what they have
allowed us to disclose is that a foreign
ally
contacted CIA and said, "We have
collected intelligence that suggests you
have a mole. You have somebody inside
your organization who's a turncoat, a
spy for somebody else." So a foreign
ally warned CIA. Otherwise CIA would
have had no idea.
>> Okay? And foreign allies are people like
the the United Kingdom,
>> Canada,
>> Australia, Australia,
>> Australia. So you can imagine the
disruption that that would make. Not
only did we did did CIA proper not know
they had a mole. It took an ally to tell
us. And then when the ally told us, we
have to assume that the ally is sharing
as much biographical detail as possible.
So they're telling you the name. Hey,
Bob is a spy in your organization. But
now that CIA officer is an American
citizen protected by American rights and
privileges and CIA obviously has no
information to show that that person's a
spy except for the word of some foreign
ally which is still in the in the eyes
of the US government a foreigner is a
foreigner ally or not. So even if it is
the UK or Canadians telling us so and so
is a spy until we have our own body of
evidence we can't prosecute. That person
can't be fired. That person can't be
discharged. That person can't be sued.
that person can't be arrested. So now
CIA has this mess where they are
actively losing information, actively
losing uh intel
>> because of this mole
>> because of a mole, but they can't take
any action because they have to now
build a legal case against the mole to
prove that that person's actually
breaking the law.
>> So the ally that calls the CIA and says
you've got a mole in your ranks, they
named the person
>> most likely. most likely they would have
never made the the notification without
also sharing the name which is a
courtesy we do to others as well. If we
come across information that we know an
MI6 officer has been compromised or a
Canadian CSIS officer has been
compromised or an ASUS officer in in
Australia, we will share as many
biographical details as possible.
>> And did you share the name? Did when you
were called into the room that day, did
they share the name with you?
>> No.
It's hard for people to wrap their minds
around the culture at CIA. And I get it
because how do you wrap your mind around
an organization you don't know? And the
only exact the only insight is from
movies. So culturally CIA is a is a
group of people who value secrets. And
that need to know is very important
inside those walls. It's just something
we toss around like movie jargon
outside. But inside CIA need to know is
very very real. And you are only briefed
to the minimum that you need to know. So
inside of this tiny group of of spy
hunters which is known as the the um
counter espionage group CEG inside this
very small group they have the need to
know basically everything and then as
you go out in rings from that group they
reduce the information they share. So
they might know the name but then when
they share it to the next ring they just
say hey there's an officer who's in this
office and then it goes to the next ring
there's an officer in this division and
it goes to the next ring. So the people
talking to us as senior leaders, the
people talking to us knew the minimum we
needed to know was that we were going to
build new operations, but we were also
going to be most likely targeted by a
known threat inside CIA. That was why it
mattered to us. Interestingly, that
decision is why we had a First Amendment
case with this book at all because CIA
was knowingly putting our lives in
danger of a foreign adversary by
intentionally creating operations that
would tempt that mole to disclose our
identities. That was one of the things I
was thinking when I was reading the book
is you knew that you were being sent to
an adversarial country and you also had
the knowledge that working amongst you
was a mole who was revealing secrets
about the CIA and potentially yourselves
to that foreign country.
>> Correct.
>> So that foreign country could have
po could have killed you.
>> Absolutely. And and that's the second
kind of cultural element that people
don't understand about CIA. You don't
really turn down an operation if you're
invited to take part in an operation.
You have the right to say no, but if you
say no, you're committing career
suicide.
Jihei, and anybody who reads the book
will find this out, Jihei was a stellar
officer on a phenomenal trajectory,
doing incredible things, kind of really
charting the course for what targeters
have become today.
For me, I proved to be a not very good
case officer. And if there was anything
I was really hoping for, it was a second
chance. So, when we were pulled into
this meeting and they said, "Hey, here's
this exciting opportunity. Here's an
operation that we're we're literally
inviting you into this executive suite
to invite you to this operation, and
we're going to put you together, and we
need you to do this." That's not that's
not a situation that I was going to say
no to. I think you considered saying no,
but for me it was it was a they knew me
well enough to know I was not going to
turn that down.
>> Yeah. I mean, I think when you have
anxiety, you consider saying no to
everything. It's like you're always
thinking about the risk. But I think
that
>> what was the risk that you were thinking
about? It is very real that you can be
disappeared by a foreign adversary, that
you can be, you know, killed by them
with no explanation, that you can be
just put in jail and then you never get
out because the government's not
necessarily going to come to your aid.
And if they do, it might be still might
be 20 years before you're out of their
prison.
>> Every sworn officer has plausible
deniability, meaning the president can
plausibly deny that you don't belong to
whatever organization you are claiming
to belong to. So, a CIA officer arrested
in a Russian prison can can avoid all
questioning and say, "Hold on, guys. I'm
actually CIA. You caught me. Good job.
Now, please send me home. Don't have a
diplomatic incident." The president has
the right to say, "That person is not
CIA."
>> Yeah.
>> That person has never worked for me. I
don't know who that person is. uh that
their American passport might be
verified, but but they are legally in
your possession of
>> of um
you know legal requirements. So we we
don't really know who they are. So, so
just to clarify then, you were being
told you were going to be flown, both of
you, to a foreign country,
>> an adversarial foreign country, and you
were told that there was a mole amongst
your your ranks that was feeding
information to the foreign country that
you were being flown to.
>> So, we they actually stationed us in a
neighboring country that was friendly,
but we knew that Andy and anybody we
worked with would have to go into
Falcon. So they flew us to a country
>> Falcon being the adversarial country
>> adversarial country. So we actually
lived in a third country called wolf but
we were operating in both wolf and in
falcon. So the danger was still there
>> and then that's when jih's targeter mind
set in and that's when she started
thinking through well how could our
operation be reverse engineered by
Falcon and actually find us and if we
can think like the enemy we can stay one
step ahead of the enemy. So the whole
idea of going to wolf and building our
team from the very beginning, jihei
started to architect how we could do
that in a way that would foil the foil
our uh aggressors from being able to
even discover our existence.
>> And what was the objective when you so
you've got this subobjective which I
understand which is to find the mole but
the main objective is just to spy as
usual and collect information on this
adversarial country.
>> Yes and no. The main objective was to
collect information, but the spying as
usual is the part that was a no. CIA
specifically told us they didn't want us
to do the standard spy mo.
>> Spying has really been the same since
the days of Egypt, the ancient Egypt,
right? You find somebody who gives you
information about something that they
have access to and that's it. And that's
spying. Then you turn it into a report
and you pass it up to somebody who reads
it and they make a decision. They wanted
a new a new kind of mouse track. They
wanted a new way of doing espionage.
And when they deployed us to the
friendly country, that was their only
request was whatever you do there,
coordinate it with the local leadership
and then don't tell us because we have
to make sure that the mole doesn't learn
what you're doing.
That's going to be how we tempt the mole
to start probing around and asking
questions that are outside of the norm.
That's how we're going to reverse
engineer this and find the mole. So, we
need you to go do something new and we
need it not to be standard.
>> And don't tell us.
>> And don't tell us, but tell your
leadership in the friendly country.
>> Your CA CIA leadership in the French
friendly country.
>> Correct.
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> Because the
>> and he's going to tell or she's going to
tell them.
>> No. So, it's completely
compartmentalized. So,
>> need to know,
>> right? Because if we kept all of our
operations
um centered in Wolf than in our in our
friendly country, then the mole would
never know what we were doing. So we
would be gathering intelligence which
would then be further compartmentalized
to maybe a specific office where like
one or two people at headquarters might
know about one particular operation and
then one or two people might know about
another operation. But it's because not
all of Falcon House would know, the mole
would not have access to any of these
new, any of these new intelligence
sources. And that's what was really
important. That's why they wanted us to
rebuild because he currently had access
to all of the legacy intelligence
sources. Okay? And so if he wanted to,
you know, pass any information to Falcon
from all of our legacy sources, he
could. But if he doesn't have access to
our new sources, he can't pass any of
that new information on. And now here we
are. We're able to gather more
intelligence and then hopefully if we're
lucky we, you know, we strike gold on
finding out who he is or who he's
working with or other things. But yeah,
compartmentalization was the is the key.
So we were really very um you know uh
kind of siloed in Wolf.
>> I'm trying to understand how you doing
what you were doing was going to help
the CIA discover who the mole was.
One of the things in in
double agent operations, which is what
you're talking about when you talk about
a mole or a penetration, a double agent,
meaning I'm a sworn officer of CIA, but
then I've also agreed to work with the
Russians, the Chinese, the North
Koreans, the Cubans, whatever. That's a
double a double agent. double agent
operations are very difficult to
maintain long term because if my
information isn't relevant to my foreign
adversary anymore if the if I'm
collecting secrets on Cuba but I'm being
paid by the Russians the Russians may
not care that I keep collecting secrets
on Cuba. So they might cut me off and
then all of a sudden I'm a double agent
culpable of crime but without protection
from another country. So when you think
of your Edward Snowdens, when you think
of some of your famous turncoats from
the United States, they flee to the
country that they were working for
ultimately. So if you don't have that
escape path, then it becomes very very
stressful and scary for for a double
agent. So what CIA was counting on is
the mole who was reporting our secrets
to Falcon.
If we could create new operations and
that mole didn't have access to those
new operations, then the mole would
start to stretch. They would start to
make mistakes, ask questions they
shouldn't ask, steal information, try to
hack onto systems they shouldn't get
onto. And that's all stuff that CIA can
use to build a legal case to arrest that
person. But without knowing, without
having something that that person has to
stretch to collect, they're not going to
make a mistake. So our job was to create
something new so that the mole would
make a mistake that CIA could track and
that would build a legal case that would
allow CIA to arrest an American citizen
for espionage.
>> Did the CIA have access to the
information the mole was sending back to
the enemy country?
>> No. That's one of the most dangerous
parts about double agent operations. We
often we have a lot of nicknames, a lot
of inside terminology, but we usually
call it the keys to the kingdom. When
you have a foreign penetration, you have
the keys to everything in that foreign
country's um all of their secrets
because you have access to an
intelligence officer who can pull
anything. So our double agent, our mole
had access to essentially everything
related to Falcon that CIA had. So CIA
didn't know what he was sharing, what he
wasn't sharing, how much he had been
sharing, or even how long he had been
sharing it.
>> But they suspected he was sharing
something
>> because there was something that our
ally picked up on, something that
allowed them to identify the person and
communicate it back.
>> So you land in this friendly country
next to the enemy country. And do you
have to adopt new aliases, new names,
new new stories? Do you have to pretend
that you're normal people living a
normal life?
>> You do. Um there's different ways that
you can craft it. So um Ji's job as the
targeter was to find our targets in
Falcon. A big part of what we had to do
when we got to Wolf, our friendly
country, was do whatever the leadership
there told us to do. So CIA crafted
everything for us to land in the
friendly country. Once we were in the
friendly country, then we had to start
crafting new identities, new aliases so
that we could travel out of the friendly
country and into Falcon
>> into the enemy country.
>> Mhm. But while living in Falcon, we
were, you know, Ji and Andrew Bamante,
newlywood couple where we worked was
covered, you know.
>> Where did you It's undercover. We still
can't disclose it.
>> Yeah. Like as far as this enemy, did you
like run a when you were in the enemy
country working?
>> Were you like running like a like a
coffee shop or is it
>> Yeah. When going into Falcon, there were
different um you had to have a a
different cover and a different cutout.
>> And we would use what's what you're
referring to is called commercial cover
or commercial activity, meaning we would
act as if we were part of commercial
business going into and out of the
country.
>> But you'd use your normal names.
>> No. No. We This is one of the other
things that's really fascinating about
the book and one of the reasons that CIA
push back is we get to disclose whole
new levels of tradecraftraft that have
never been talked about in previous
books. So the trade craft that we use
here is is something that the Brits
actually call um dry cleaning. And what
that means is we would clear our path
before we would go into Falcon. So we're
in a friendly country and we need to go
into a hostile country. In order to go
from the friendly country to the hostile
country, you can't go directly because
if you go directly, the hostile country
can track you back to your friendly
country and then they can send a team to
to hurt you if they need to in the
friendly country. So instead, what you
do is you create a cleansing route. So
you travel from the friendly country to
a neutral country and in that neutral
country you'll change identities and
then travel into your target country. So
now if the hostile country tracks you,
they track you back to a neutral country
and they have no idea that you
originated from a friendly country.
>> But if you go from a friendly country to
a neutral country when you get to the
neutral country, do you need like a new
passport and stuff? Because that neutral
country presumably they don't know that
you're spies.
>> Correct.
>> So do you have to have a new passport to
then get on a plane to fly into the
>> Yes. And it's what we would call a
passport swap. And there's different
ways of doing a swap. You can carry your
own swap. You can have somebody meet you
to do a swap. You can have a cache where
you hide a swap. But that's the benefit
of always using a consistent cleansing
route because you can always go back to
the same neutral country. And from the
hostile country's point of view, every
time they track you, you always go back
to the same place. So they start to
build a pattern of life, what we call a
pattern of life, where they believe
you're originating from this country
when in fact you're not. So you you land
in this friendly country. You're making
your way into the hostile country. What
was your objective? What were you trying
to do in that hostile country?
>> The first thing that we were trying to
do was find targets.
>> And then we knew that as we found
targets and built targets, we would also
need to support the operations against
those targets. And there's a logistical
element to espionage where you need to
have encrypted phones, you need to have
satellite satellite phones or SIM cards,
you need to have money, you need to have
specialized gifts. Like there's there's
a there's a logistical supply chain that
needs to be built.
>> Specialized gifts.
>> So, um, things that are appealing to a
target that they may not be able to get
themselves. gold bullion, high-end
liquors, child pornography,
foreign currency, whatever they need,
your job is to make sure they have a way
of getting it.
>> Child pornography,
>> some some targets, especially in the in
the world of drugs and uh and terrorism
and weapons, they they feed off of the
strangest things.
>> Mhm.
>> So, the C CIA would supply that
pornography
>> in a way. um we would more like
facilitate the transfer. Some other
friendly country might actually be who
acquires it. So for example, Germany
might actually uh have a raid where they
where they carry out a raid against a
pornographer and they have terabytes of
porn, right? And then the UK might have
a case where they need porn to pay an
Iranian. So now they can trade with BND
so that BND can use this cache of porn
and they can give it to the Brits who
give it to the Iranians and that can be
a currency of types.
>> Again, morally ambivalent, the goal is
to protect your people at the end of the
day, right? So when it comes down to it,
that's the same way CIA works. If we're
giving gold, if we're giving minted
American gold coins to an evil person in
North Korea, do we really care if it's
keeping Americans safe? There are some
people who would say yes. And there are
other people who would say, "Whatever
the price is, let's keep Americans
safe."
>> So, tell me about what you did then. So,
what was your what did you accomplish
while you were there? And what was the
you talk in the book about using
terrorist tactics to build your
operation there? Can you you run me
through what is it what it is you
accomplished there and the role that
both of you played?
>> So, I'll start it and I'll let you take
it over. But the uh the the book's
title, Shadow Cell, is really about the
cell model and the terrorist cell model
that we recreated in our friendly
country so that we could execute
operations against our hostile country
that mirrored tactics and techniques
that terrorists had used to foil
Americans for the last 20 years in the
global war on terror.
So what Ji and I learned is that CIA was
not very good at beating terrorists.
America was not very good at beating
terrorists. That's why after 20 years of
fighting in Afghanistan, we left and we
gave it back to the same terrorist group
that we went in there to fight. We had
learned a lot from fighting that
adversary. But we were the only country
in the world fighting the global war on
terror. The Russians, the Iranians, the
Chinese, the Cubans, the North Koreans,
none of them engaged in the war on
terror. So everything we had learned
from al-Qaeda, we were the only ones
that learned it. So we found that to be
kind of a competitive advantage. So we
started building our operations,
modeling our operations off of the way
the terrorists structured their cells.
And we called our cell in Wolf the
shadow cell. And we had to find the
people, recruit the people, and train
the people inside our cell, our actual
CIA peers. We had to get them to learn
how to run the same model. That's really
what the book explains is how we built
that and what those people did because
espionage is not about one superhero
overseas. It's about a team of people
doing incredible things.
>> And were those people on the ground in
the friendly country next to the hostile
country?
>> Yes.
>> And so did you when you recruited these
people to build this team, did you
recruit them from America or were you
recruiting them with inside that
friendly country?
>> Inside of Wolf. Everybody who was in the
cell was already w working in wolf.
>> And the word cell basically means team.
>> Team,
>> right? Team.
>> So you built this team in the friendly
country next door to the enemy country.
And this team consisted of how many
people,
>> right? So James was our senior most
>> case officer. Tasha, Luke, and Beverly
were our second tour case officer. So
they were more junior. That's why they
were hungry but but still kind of uh
>> flexible. Whereas James was in James was
at a place in his career where if this
didn't work, his career would be tanked.
>> And then Ji and I were not case
officers. We were kind of the I was the
the mission planner, if you will. And
Jihi was the targeter. And then uh Diana
was our linguist. Will was our tech
support. And we had that was our that
was our cell. That was our little group
of people that would sit in the bullpen.
Now, it's important to note that
>> none of them and this was their primary
mission. It was our primary mission
>> for all of them. Helping us was just
something they were doing because they
believed that if we were successful, it
would be good for them. They had primary
missions to do all sorts of other
things.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, okay. And were these people locals?
>> They're all Americans and they're all
Americans assigned to Wolf. So, they're
all American CIA officers, all sworn
officers that are assigned to our
friendly country in various different
covers to do various different primary
missions. Okay.
And how did you guys like communicate?
Did you like meet up for like dinner?
Like what's the how does it work?
>> Yeah, I mean all of our communication
and hangouts were in the office because
we couldn't really be seen outside
together.
>> We had connect us.
>> We had what's known as a skiff, a
specialized compartmented uh information
facility. So it was a it was a hardened
soundproof office that we could have
meetings in.
>> Couldn't the adversarial country like
watch you walking in there in the
morning? The adversarial country
arguably didn't even know we were in
Wolf because every time they tracked
anybody's travel, it would take them to
a different country.
>> Oh, so you were just people going to an
office?
>> Yes.
>> So you could be doing anything in there,
correct?
>> Yeah. And it's an office and a large
office building, so we could really be
going anywhere.
>> Okay, fine. So it's hard to track.
>> So what was your what was your first
mission together as a as a team? Like
what were you what were you doing in the
enemy country? What was your objective
to you were finding you were working as
a targeter to find interesting
individuals and then Andrew you were
predominantly trying to make contact
with those individuals
>> sort of my because I couldn't as the
node of the of the cell the node is a
term that we're using to say I was the
piece that was exposed to CIA. So the
mole if the mole went hunting the mole
would find me I was the one that was
exposed.
>> Okay. So for me, it was important that I
actually didn't meet with any of the
targets that we had in Falcon. My job
was to go to Falcon to start sourcing
the information that she would use to
identify those individuals.
>> Like what does that mean?
>> So uh whether it's something stupid like
a phone book or a thumb drive, uh
whether you're picking up a dead drop
from somebody else. So consider in
Falcon, we would have already had other
case officers carrying out operations.
>> Yeah.
So we might have a case officer who was
able to extract information from a
military database and that military
database has all the weapons engineers
for Falcon's Air Force.
>> That case officer
>> spy
>> that spy
>> that spy can collect the thumb drive
>> and then they can put that thumb drive
in what's known as a dead drop. A dead
drop would be something that you hide
anywhere in the in the country, in a
city, wherever else.
>> Like in a bush.
>> Yeah, like in a bush. I would then go
into Falcon and I would go to that dead
drop site, the bush.
>> So you go into the enemy country,
>> right?
>> You'd go to the the bush
>> and take the thumb drive and bring it
back by our cleansing route to Wolf,
where I could give it to Jihi. Ji could
then extract the information from the
thumb drive. And now she has a list of
all the engineers who are part of the
enemy country's air force. And then from
there, she has a starting point for her
information to start finding targets.
Now, as she finds targets, that's when
we tap on our case officers, James,
Tasha, Luke, Beverly, and we say,
"Here's somebody that we think would be
susceptible to you because you're a
middle-aged woman, you're an older man,
you're a younger man, you're a younger
woman, right? We think that these people
might be susceptible to your interests,
your backgrounds, your voice, who knows
what. And we need you to target them."
And then we would send those those spies
into Falcon to meet the targets that
Jihi found.
>> Okay.
Okay. Got you.
>> The game of espionage is not an easy
game. It's a fun game, but it's a it's a
chess game, not a checkers game. So,
there's a lot of moving pieces and a lot
of moving parts. And um for me, it was
always very exciting, but I also
understand that it can be very difficult
to to express it. Well,
>> was there ever a time when you felt most
at risk when you were in that hostile
country?
>> At some point it my presence in Falcon
in the enemy country became known to the
local government in the enemy country
and they dispatched a surveillance team
to track me. It was a major turning
point in our operation. We kind of went
from a place where we felt like we were
winning to a place where we wondered if
we were losing. We went from a place
where I felt very safe to a place where
I felt like I could immediately be
apprehended. And then all the worst
thoughts start to creep in. Not
necessarily about being shot. Oftentimes
a CIA officer being shot in a foreign
country is a welcome experience because
being shot at least means everything
ends. The worst is being captured and
being interrogated and being used for
diplomatic leverage and being used for
policy leverage and being being forced
to do uh you know into brainwashing and
propaganda videos. Like that's a much
worse experience than than a clean
death.
>> You said earlier that it would have been
the mole that was exposed to your
presence and that knew that you were in
this enemy country. So was it the mole
that told the enemy country?
>> That's what we believe. We don't have
the evidence to prove it. Um, but what
CIA's conclusion as well as the
conclusion inside of our own shadow cell
is that our operations had reached the
place where they were significant enough
that the mole took a risk to find out
that I was the exposed member of the
cell and then the mole reported my name
to the hostile country's police force.
So, you're now inside that hostile
country, that enemy country, and they
know that you're a US spy. Was there a
day when you realized that they knew
that you were a spy?
>> Yes. Well, there wasn't a day that I
realized that they were that they knew I
was CIA. There was a day that I realized
they were surveilling me as if I was a
threat. When you travel, when any
business person travels to a hostile
country, they're almost always
surveiled. They're
Hotel rooms can be rifled through.
There's there's people called bumbling
surveillance or watchers who will
usually follow you. Um I'm not sure what
your travel looks like, but I can almost
assure you that if you traveled to
Russia, if you've traveled to China, if
you travel to Cuba, you had a watcher.
You had a surveillance team
>> really
>> that was watching you.
>> Me?
>> Yeah.
>> Why?
>> Because you're wealthy, you're
successful, you're an influencer, you're
of significance. At the very least, they
want to make sure that some petty
criminal doesn't hurt you in their
country cuz that could be a big deal.
>> Thank you. But
>> please continue to surveil me.
>> But at worst, they could also be
scraping your cell phone to pull all of
your contacts off the cell phone so that
they could then reach out to any of the
contacts that you have on your cell
phone. They could scan and duplicate
your hard drive as you go through uh
secondary or go through immigration in a
foreign country.
>> They can scan my hard drive as I go
through immigration.
>> Absolutely. We can do that here in the
United States, too.
>> Well, so if I land in the United States,
they they How do they do how would they
do that? So there's uh there's there's
different authorities that exist for
different agencies. So here inside the
United States, one of the authorities
that we give to our border patrol is the
authority to essentially scrape data off
of all of your electronic devices. So if
you're deemed a target of interest and
if you're moved into what's known as a
secondary screening, they will separate
you from your bags. They'll actually
open your your bags. They might even
tell you to unlock your cell phone or
unlock your laptop. And then from there
with with technology that's proprietary
and technology that's also commercially
available, they can scrape and scan your
hard drive.
>> Because I've been through security
before in various countries and
sometimes when I get to the other end,
there's a letter in my suitcase and the
letter in my suitcase says, "Hey, we had
to go through your bags for some
reason."
>> If you had a technical if you had a
technical device in your bag along with
that letter, there's a good chance that
it was cloned.
But I didn't give them my password.
>> Sometimes they don't need your password.
>> Really?
>> Oh, yeah.
>> How are they going to get into my my
laptop without my password?
>> There's ways.
>> So, yeah, there's password generators.
There's password cracking codes. Your
password is the I mean, I have somebody
I could call right now and within about
30 minutes, we would probably have all
of your passwords that you use for all
of your devices in your personal home.
That's the end of the podcast.
Can I quit the book?
Pass me my phone.
>> And this is a bit of a tangent, but it's
an important one. So, what devices do
you guys use? If you have that knowledge
that it's really easy to break into
devices, do you use the same devices
that I use?
>> Yeah, I mean, for me, I assume that once
you if you become a target of interest,
there's nothing you can do to protect
yourself. So, I use devices that are
actually easy to crack and clone because
I don't want my device to get broken. So
that when the Chinese or the Russians
choose to go through some back door on
my Android system, my Android doesn't
shut down. Whereas there are more
complex systems like a Glacier phone
where if somebody penetrates your
Glacier phone, this the whole phone will
shut down and you'll be without a phone.
>> Is there any phone or device that's
safe?
>> I would argue the answer is no.
>> No, I would say no. Awesome.
>> Because anything that you create that
claims to be safe becomes priority
number one for all the adversaries out
there because they know if they can be
the first ones to crack that phone or
crack that hard drive or crack that
operating system, then they have the
competitive advantage over everybody
else.
>> Yeah. It's possible for something to be
safe for a short period of time, but
eventually it's going to get cracked.
They'll find the back door. They'll
figure out how to open it.
>> And it's not just foreign intelligence
that wants to do that. It's also all of
your criminal syndicates. It's all of
your dark web syndicates. Everybody
wants to do it. So whenever I see
anybody come out and promise that they
got the new hardest device,
>> I just I don't believe it. It might be
hard, but that doesn't mean it's
impossible.
>> Yeah, there are levels of security, but
nothing is 100% secure, at least when it
comes to technology. And so we just
assume that it's not secure. And so you
just treat your device in that way, you
know, with whatever liberal security is
convenient and makes you feel secure.
But knowing that at any point somebody
could
>> just hack in from, you know, they could
hack in remotely. They could,
>> you know, scrape your drive when you're
going through immigration or if you're
in a hotel room, somebody comes in. I
mean, it's always possible.
>> They can steal your encryption key from
somebody else that you are having an
encrypted chat with.
>> They don't have to target you.
>> Do you use like cold storage? I.e., do
you use like a a hard drive that's not
connected to the internet or something?
>> We will air gap.
>> Air gap. Air gapping is cold storage
like what you're talking about where you
take something off the actual cloud,
take something off the internet and it
just lives in a standalone server
whether that's a we have drives that we
save our information to that are that
are airgapped. They're not connected to
the internet, not connected to a cloud.
They're only connected whenever we
choose to transfer information. Um so
we'll do things like that to keep our
information safe. But the I think the
most important thing is that if you if
you show if you make yourself easy to be
hacked,
then you'll actually get hacked less
because you're not a risk. They can see
what you have. They understand that
you're not important and they move on to
the next target that's more more uh
clandestine or trying to hide.
>> Okay. So, you you figure out going back
to the story, you figure out that you're
being surveiled. How? Just like the the
whole idea of a cleansing route through
a third country, that's a a piece of
tradecraftraft that has never been
exposed before. I actually get to teach
a number of people. I get to teach in
the story how we do what's known as a
surveillance detection route. So the the
core of surveillance detection is
understanding something that we call
multiple sites. Multiple sightings over
a period of time. So I need to see the
same person, the same vehicle, the same
face, the same profile. profile meaning
you know tall tall caucasian male
mid-50s I need to see the same profile
several times over a period of time
where I'm changing locations.
So what happens inside shadow cell is I
identify one car that follows me through
multiple turns and then falls off only
to come back on later on. That's kind of
my first indicator that there might be
something going on. So then I go through
this route, a predetermined, pre-planned
route through a city. And the only
reason I'm doing that route is so that I
can drag people along with me to see if
they're going to behave like
surveillance. And from that route, I
find that it's not just one car, it's
actually two other cars. And when I get
out of my own vehicle to walk on foot,
there are very specific people who then
follow me on foot. And then in the third
part of the surveillance detection
route, I find that the same people who
are following me on foot are also the
people driving the cars that are
following me inside vehicles. So most
surveillance detection routes are
executed in this very prescribed, very
specific process so that you can see
who's actually following you.
>> And you did that. You discover that
there's multiple people following you in
multiple vehicles.
>> And when you discover that, it's
terrifying. Yeah, I was going to say
>> it's absolutely terrifying, but it's
comforting because you know they're
following you, but they don't know that
you know that yet. So, they still think
that they are discreet. They still think
that that you're operationally active.
Meaning, they're following you because
they expect you to commit espionage.
They're following you because they
expect you to meet with a source, do a
dead drop, acquire some kind of
equipment that you shouldn't have,
right? They're waiting for that. If they
don't see that, then they don't get the
evidence that they need. They don't win.
>> So, you go straight to a strip club or
something.
>> Exactly. Right. You go to a strip club,
you go to a library, I went to an arcade
in this book, and you go somewhere to
just waste their time because as long as
I'm collecting their information, when I
come back to my friendly country and I
meet with my shadow cell teammates, I
can now tell them this license plate is
a surveillance vehicle. This profile is
a surveillance vehicle. If you see a
woman or a man wearing these types of
clothing, this is a surveillant, right?
And we can ex and now we can build a
database back in Wolf that shares the
surveillance team members in Falcon.
>> Were you scared when you figured out
that you were being followed?
>> I was terrified. I was terrified because
I had so many thoughts going through my
head from how did I [__] up to what if I
don't go home. I'm trying to think about
what they're going to do as their next
step. How long are they going to follow
me before they just say [__] it and just
wrap me up?
>> Are they even going to wrap me up?
Meaning meaning apprehend me, capture
me? Do they already have evidence that
shows that I'm committing espionage?
Right? I haven't committed espionage on
this trip yet, but have they seen me on
a previous trip doing a dead drop,
retrieving a dead drop, dropping a cell
phone, taking a battery? Like, what what
do they know? I don't know what they
know. And then you've got all this panic
and at the same time you have to recall
three and a half hours of very specific
activity across a city to run an SDR.
>> An SDR,
>> a surveillance detection route. You have
to recall I turn left on Front Street. I
go two blocks. I turn right on 22nd
North and then I turn left on an alley.
You have to recall this thing that you
memorize that you work through at the
same time that you have this spike of
adrenaline and panic.
>> And you were on your own.
>> I was on my own for that operation. So
you you go through this route through
the city that you is predetermined for
you to go down and presumably this
particular route is designed in such a
way where it gives you opportunities to
expose them.
You realize that you are being followed.
What do you do in that exact moment?
That first moment that I realized it was
true,
I had this realization, this moment of
fear and
vulnerability
where I just it was a very it was a
moment of self-loathing where you just
you realize that you're not as good as
you think you are and you realize that
however this happened,
you're the only one to blame for what
comes next.
In that kind of moment of humility, I
actually called Ji in our alias
identities that we had built for these
operations. We had what's known as a
throwaway phone or a disposable
telecommunications. And I called her and
I gave her a coded message to let her
know that
something was wrong cuz I wanted her to
know that something was wrong so that
she could take it back to the cell so
that they could start their systems on
their end to protect me if I did get
arrested, if I did get wrapped up, if I
did get shot.
>> You gave her a coded message
>> via cell phone.
>> What is that coded message?
>> Um the I think I just called you and
said I'm coming home early.
>> You said you you called her and said I'm
coming home early.
>> Yeah. which is a bad sign because you
would never come home early from an
operation ever. So as soon as I heard he
was coming home early, I knew that
something was wrong.
>> Take me into your world at that time.
The phone rings.
>> I get the call from my burner phone and
which was unusual anyways. I mean I
always had it because that was part of
our like communication plan was for us
to do that when we were apart.
>> So a burner phone is a secondary phone
that you just use for these kind of
things.
>> Yeah. Just for this. It's never used for
anything else. it's not connected to a
name. Um, and that's what keeps it
anonymous for us. And so he calls and he
says, you know, hey, I'm coming home
early. And I'm like,
okay. Because you can't like if if the
line's being tapped, you can't be like,
oh my god, what's going on? Like, are
you okay? Because somebody's listening
to it. It has to sound like we knew that
his alias had a fiance. I was the
fiance. So, you know, it was totally
natural for anybody listening in to to
hear him say, "Hey, I'm coming home
early." So, then I had to be like, "Oh,
that's really exciting. That's great.
You know, I can't wait to see you." And
he's like, "Okay, I love you." And then
that's the end of the conversation. And
that's all I get. And so, after that's
all I get from Andy, I go back to the
office. I'm starting to look like scour
all of our cables. I go talk to James
like, "Have you heard anything? Like, is
anything happening?"
>> You started to scour all of your cables.
Yeah. So, you know, we have our all of
our databases, you know, all the CIA
databases. So, you know, there's
reporting that comes in all the time um
that you're, you know, especially
regional reporting that you're privy to.
And so, you know, I talked to James
because he was he had more access than I
did to things all things Falcon. And so,
I was like, have you heard anything? Is
there anything weird going on? And he
said no. And so I started just kind of
looking through all of my stuff to see,
you know, was there any reporting that
was of somebody being captured or
somebody, you know, something going
wrong and there was nothing. Um and so
Andy and I have um we created on our own
just a it's called a combo plan, a
communication plan where you know if
anything ever happens you know whether
natural disaster or you know espionage
faux like we had a system of
communication where you know I wait 8
hours and you know check this fake email
that we share that's not attributable
and then he gives me a sign of life and
then we have these timings 8 hours 12
hours 24 hours, 48 hours where all I
need from him is a sign of life to know
that he's okay. And then that also gives
us the opportunity if it were a natural
disaster, for example, to put, you know,
I meet me at this location.
>> So that that's an email address that
Andy emails.
>> Yeah.
>> It's an email address that we both have
a login to and you create a draft email
inside of it.
>> Oh, okay.
>> Also learned from terrorism.
>> Also learned from terrorism. Okay.
>> Oh, is that what terrorists do?
>> Yeah.
>> So they create a draft email, they just
leave it there. Yeah. Someone else logs
in and looks at it. Correct.
>> Yeah. So there's it's never sent so it
never goes over the internet. Really?
Yeah. So we had this communication plan
in place. So even though I was concerned
and I couldn't find anything to discover
what was happening, I knew we had this
communication plan in place. So I knew
that at some point he was going to give
me a sign of life and I couldn't do
anything
until that point.
>> So you're you discover that you've been
discovered by this adversarial country.
You call Jihi. You let her know that
you're coming home early. Then what do
you do?
>> Then I have to plan my escape. So
another thing that people that movies
don't show you is that when the first
effort to escape is always self-rescue.
It's always on the part of the field
officer alone to try to escape. There's
no Navy Seal team. There's no evacuation
helicopter. There's no high-speed boat
or or classy yacht just waiting for you.
you have to get yourself across the
country's border yourself before you can
hope for any kind of evac from there or
what we call an Xfill. So, I knew that
it was on me to come up with some
evacuation plan. And I had to come up
with an evacuation plan that wasn't
going to let the surveillance team know
that I knew I was under surveillance.
>> So, you're still in the car at this
point?
>> I'm I'm in between the car and on foot.
uh depending on where I am in the
surveillance detection route, right? It
was surveillance detection routes
generally break into three phases. It's
in the first phase that you suspect that
you're under surveillance. It's in the
second phase that you confirm it. So,
it's in the second phase when I confirm
I am absolutely under surveillance.
That's when I contact Ji and that's when
I start coming up with my own
self-rescue plan.
>> And then the third phase,
>> the third phase is a collection phase.
You know what? You know that you're
under surveillance. you know that you've
communicated to somebody that you're
under surveillance and now the mission
becomes collect as much information as
you can about the surveillance team
before they realize that they're being
collected against.
>> So you you see this car behind you,
multiple cars behind you and the same
people following you on foot. Are you
writing this down or are you just trying
to memorize it?
>> At first it's all memory. Um and we have
a methodology for trying to memorize
this stuff. We actually talk about this
in the book as well. you start to come
up with short codes to describe the
people. Um, and the codes that you come
up with mean something to you, but they
wouldn't mean anything if they were if
they came out in an interrogation or if
they came out in writing. So, like for
you, I might call you black t-shirt. A
black t-shirt means something to me. So,
if I see black t-shirt behind me three
times in the next 45 minutes in three
different parts of the city, I know that
I have an image for what black t-shirt
means. But when I write down black
t-shirt, nobody else knows what that
means. When I see a woman, it was cold.
uh the the season that I was carrying
out these operations. Um I saw a woman
in ear muffs, so I would call her ear
muffs. I saw a guy in a bomber jacket,
so I called him bomber jacket. And you
just recall these people. You rec you
you blue sedan, yellow SUV, right? White
taxi cab. You you start to come up with
these nicknames that mean something to
you but don't mean anything to anybody
else. And then when you get back to a
place where you can document your notes
in detail, you have a reference point to
document in detail. So, I start by
memorizing. When I got towards the end
of my third phase of surveillance
detection, I actually wrote down my
notes. In the book, it explains I went
into a like a clothing store and then I
started making notes in the clothing
store. Presumably, if somebody came in
and arrested me at that moment, what
they would see is a bunch of notes about
clothing, ear muffs and black t-shirts
inside of a clothing store. That's not
espionage. But then when I was able to
actually get back to uh to Wolf with
myself, then I was able to deconstruct
what black t-shirt meant. Black t-shirt
meant uh black male with a goatee uh
approximately
65 lbs, 5 foot, 11 in, 38 years old.
>> So, how did you get from phase two of
your process of figuring out if you were
being followed to the arcade? like what
was the why did you get to the arcade?
>> So, I went to the arcade because I was
trying in a surveillance detection
route, one of the things that you're
actually trying to do is called bore or
lull your surveillance. You never want
to in movies, it makes it look like
you're trying to to ditch your
surveillance team. You're trying to lose
your tail. That's not what professionals
do. What professionals do is we drag the
tail. We keep the tail with us for as
long as possible. And one of the things
you do is you make yourself very
predictable. You move very slowly. You
hang out in public places which makes it
very easy for them to observe you. I was
actually going to the arcade to try to
collect more information about my
surveillance team. But I was trying to
give them time and space so they could
observe me in a public setting. It it
backfired because what actually ended up
happening is that when I went into the
arcade, they lost me. They lost sight of
me, which put them into a position where
they started panicking to try to find me
even though I was just sitting inside
the arcade.
I mean, it doesn't sound like it
backfired if they lost you.
>> That's a terrible thing when they lose
you because when they lose you, they
start to panic and they start to assume
either they made a mistake or you're a
trained officer. If you're a trained
officer, if that's the conclusion that
they make, they can come in and arrest
you. If they lose you, then they start
to make mistakes. And when a
surveillance team starts to make
mistakes, it means that they might
stumble across you. They might have two
different surveillance people find you
at the same time. And for for them
that's a scary thing because for them
they're trying not to be identified.
They're trying to be discreet. They're
trying to not be seen. So when they in
this case in in the story that that we
share in Shadow Cell, when the
surveillance team broke into a
starburst, a starburst means they went
they broke ranks to try to find me in
the arcade. When they broke ranks to try
to find me, they presented themselves to
me in the arcade face to face. And it
was in that moment that I realized they
know that I see them and I know that
they see me and this is bad.
>> You locked eyes with them,
>> which you're never supposed to do.
>> You're never supposed to do.
>> You're never supposed to lock eyes with
your surveillance. You're never supposed
to lock eyes with anybody who's a threat
ever because that's threatening
behavior, right? That's one of the
reasons that people share strong eye
contact with peers is to it's a show of
trust. Well, whenever you're locking
eyes with somebody who's a threat, it's
a it's a sign of aggression or
dominance. So, whenever you're being
surveiled, you never want to make eye
contact with your surveillance team
because your surveillance team will see
that eye contact as a threat.
>> When you say you sort of bumped into
them in that arcade, what's the
distance?
>> 3T.
>> 3T. And And how long did you lock eyes
with each other? It felt like an
eternity. In reality, it was probably
two and a half seconds.
>> I mean, two and a half seconds is a long
time,
>> especially when you're trying not to be
seen.
>> So, recreate that moment for me. You're
in the arcade pretending you're playing
with games. You turn a corner.
>> It's horrible, man. It's a horrible It's
a horrible story. I'm I'm in the arcade.
I I'm I again, I think I'm doing
everything right. I'm like, "Oh, I'm in
the arcade. They watched me come in.
This gives They're probably taking a
smoke break outside. They've got nothing
to worry about." And I'm kind of going
from game to game and spending whatever
credits that I bought in the arcade. And
I go to this dinosaur hunting shooting
game, right? Almost like Big Buck Hunter
or like Jurassic Park. And I pick up a
rifle and I'm shooting at dinosaurs and
I'm just killing time. And then the
[__] surveillant comes around the
back of the machine looking for me. He
comes around the back of the machine and
he sees me and I'm holding a [__] gun
and I look at him and he looks at me and
that's that's when our two and a half
seconds happen. And I'm sitting there
and I'm like, what just happened? Why is
why did I just see Bomber Jacket come
around my video game console and stare
at me in the face. And that's when I
kind of realized, oh my gosh, like the
team is in panic. I can see multiple
people in the team. They lost me.
They're trying to find me. Bomberjacket
just found me. What did Bomberjacket do
when he looked at you?
>> His jaw dropped. He went slack. Like he
looked at me and he knew that he had
[__] up too. And I looked at him and
in my mind's eye, I was just hoping that
I didn't look as stupid as he looked.
>> In that moment, is is it true to say
that you should have just looked back at
the dinosaur game as fast as you
possibly could?
>> What I should have done is I should have
seen a person come around the corner and
just kind of stayed in the game. That's
what anybody else would have done.
Anybody else would have just stayed in
the game. They're focused on the game.
They don't even realize there are people
walking around, right? But the fact that
I identified I saw him and then looked
at him and the fact that he saw me and
looked at me as two professionals on
opposite sides of the of the playing
field, we both made the same mistake. We
both made the mistake of showing our
recognition to our intended target.
>> And before we continue, you as far as
your alias was in that country, you were
called Alex Hernandez, right? Correct.
Correct.
>> And you were running a business called
Acme Commercial.
>> Correct.
>> What was Acme Commercial supposed to be
doing as a company?
>> Acme Commercial was a company that was
built to source new disposable goods
from foreign countries for uh for uh
transport and distribution across
Western countries.
>> And the intelligence services build a
lot of fake businesses. You said
>> yes. It's a It's the easier it is to
build a business, the easier it is to
collect information. So, what we've
discovered is that just as anybody with
$127 in their pocket can create an LLC,
that's about how much money it takes to
start an intelligence operation.
>> It says that um the CIA operates
numerous fake companies.
>> The CIA also operates numerous real
companies, too.
>> Not just the CIA. I mean, every intel
organization has commercial fronts.
every Intel organization.
>> The CIA operates real companies. What
does that mean?
>> There there are real companies out there
owned and operated by CIA. Inel is one
of those companies. It's a investment
vehicle where CIA invests money and
invests in new technology and all the
technology that goes through InQel knows
that it's going through CIA.
>> Okay. That that's a that's that's public
though, right?
>> Correct. But the the ones that aren't
public. So the CIO will create a company
and then they will use that company to
pretend to be doing something in a
foreign foreign land basically.
>> But the primary mission is intelligence.
This is one of the most fascinating
things not only about CIA but about all
of your first world intelligence
organizations. You've heard of what's
known as the black budget. The black
budget is the budget of of um
discretionary money that can be spent on
military and intelligence operations
that isn't tied to the taxpayer. So,
it's a giant pot of money that isn't
tied to tax money. So, where does that
money come from? Part of that money
comes from anytime law enforcement or
intelligence agencies seize assets.
>> We seize cryptocurrency. We seize drugs.
We seize child pornography. Right? When
we seize that money and we use it for
other operations, that's part of the
black budget. The other part of the
black budget is when an intelligence
organization creates a business and that
business turns a profit. When that
business turns a profit, where does the
profit go? It can't go to the case
officer, that person's being paid on the
US payroll. So all that profit goes into
the black budget.
>> Do you think the CIA has some big
profitable businesses that are set up as
fronts that just like went really really
well?
>> I know it does.
>> Really?
>> I know it does. The the CIA has
businesses that it's set up that have
gone wildly profitable. CIA also has
officers that built these businesses
that then were like, why the [__] am I
at CIA and then they leave CIA and they
go on to run businesses instead.
>> I mean, a a couple of things popped into
my head as you said that. The first was
there's obviously a huge conversation at
the moment around Tik Tok because Tik
Tok was started in China. become this
massive global success and I can't think
of a better company to have started than
a platform like Tik Tok where
everybody's putting their information
and data in and it's tracking your
location. So what is your perspective on
something like Tik Tok? Do you think Tik
Tok's was started as a tool to spy?
>> I don't believe Tik Tok individually was
started as a tool to spy. I believe that
what happened is Tik Tok became wildly
popular and the government in China
realized, hey, everything in China
belongs to the government anyways. We
can step in and take advantage of this.
That is also a way that CIA and MI6 do
business as well. When a company does
very well and there's an intelligence
benefit, they will approach the company.
In a democracy, they can't force the
company to cooperate, but in a country
like China, they can. So, do you think
the social networks, a lot of the big
social networks have been approached by
the CIA or the MI6 and asked to give
information to them?
>> I would go a step further and say that
they've all been approached and that the
vast majority of them cooperate.
>> Is that a concern for the average
person?
>> Not for the for the average person
that's a benefit.
>> The average person is not being
targeted. I promise you like there's
zero interest and for the federal
government and for the intelligence
community, there's absolutely zero
interest in the average person,
>> the person who's cheating on their
spouse or avoiding $5,000 in taxes or
who isn't paying their parking bills.
Nobody cares. The federal government
doesn't care about that.
>> Well, you were doing some of that
targeting, right?
>> Right.
>> So, did you ever work with any existing
company to give you information? So all
of my data depending on what country I
was working on had different sources and
some some countries had more sources
than others but they're all sources I
can't disclose but there's tons and tons
of data that would come in to me and
then I had I worked on a number of cases
where I had to get FISA requests.
>> What's a FISA request? advisor request
is when you want to um collect
information or take information from
somebody who is an American citizen. And
I just want to remind people that
American citizen, most people who
complain about, oh, they're targeting
American citizens are thinking about
themselves. They're looking at
themselves in the mirror and thinking,
oh, they're targeting American citizens.
They're not thinking about the Chinese
person who just came over or
naturalized. They're not thinking about
the, you know, Iranian who's been here
for a long time and naturalized, right?
like all of those they're not thinking
about, you know, the
>> the al-Qaeda member who claimed to be a
refugee to get here to get some sort of
green card,
>> right? So, American citizenship, a lot
of people have that and some of those
people are doing bad things and some of
those people are our adversaries who
have infiltrated the United States and
are here to gather intelligence to get
to the our adversaries, you know, or are
here to do bad things within the
country. And so we have to get FISA
requests to get the data on them.
>> And what does that mean in in reality? A
FISA request, does that mean that you
can go into their phone?
>> It means that you have proven a link
from that person to something bad and
you've given you've given the court
enough evidence to say, hey, look, this
person's doing something bad and we need
to gather more data on them. So it just
opens the kind of data that you can get
on that person.
>> What kind of data is that? Hey, you can
get on their phone. You can get into
their computer. You can get into their
private Google accounts. You can get
their private Apple accounts. You can
>> kind of data you can get access to. You
can now use it to target them.
>> So, you could get access to their
private Google accounts, their private
Apple accounts without their passwords.
>> You would hack their passwords or steal
their passwords or Google retains their
passwords
>> and Google would give it you the
password. it for many many for most
cases if it comes down to national
security American companies will share
details
>> and that's what a FISA request does is
it's a judicial claim it's a judicial
warrant essentially to say you will let
this service onto that person's account
>> you you guys must think that people like
me live in a certain state of uh naivity
and ignorance as to what's actually
going on
>> I wouldn't say it's ignorance or naivity
I would say that it's it's conditioned
into You're conditioned to believe that
you have privacy.
>> So the reality that we should realize is
that we we don't have privacy.
>> It's not real.
>> Privacy is not real.
>> No.
>> I mean, you know, there's a level like
>> in your when you get undressed in a dark
room
like that's yours.
>> Usually no one's watching.
>> There's a good chance that you're not
being watched by the federal government.
If you're getting
that's a good chance,
>> you know, if you're sending, you know,
dirty emails to your girlfriend, that's
essentially, I mean, it's private on the
surface,
>> but not really forever private. Somebody
could access those. If you write her
dirty notes, that's way more private,
>> especially if she throws away or burns
them. Like people just I think people
take put too much confidence in
technology and feel too confident in the
privacy of technology because technology
there's really nothing private about it
to an extent. Yes. But if you think that
nobody can ever look at your stuff,
that's wrong.
>> Do you think the CIA knew you were
coming here today?
>> I think the CIA knew we were coming on
Diary of a CEO and I think they knew
that we were going to talk to you about
our book.
>> How do you think they knew that? because
we know that CIA as well as other
intelligence services, as an example,
the United Arab Emirates, we know that
they have a dedicated person that sits
in their office that watches us.
>> So, how would they know you were coming
here today?
>> Our emails, I mean, our emails, our
publishers emails, um, our own text
messages back and forth,
>> listening in on phone calls, any number
of things could have happened. Uh, like
we've tried to have a very collaborative
relationship with CIA about this book
>> because we know how scared they are. We
know how nervous this book makes them.
So, we're trying to be extra
collaborative to to give them peace of
mind like, "Hey, we're not about to go
out there and tell the world that you're
a bunch of animals and and terrible
anything." Um, they've actually read the
book multiple times and and still
they're they're afraid that we're going
to somehow
like make them look bad because so many
other officers have come out to become
authors who who make CIA look bad.
There was a couple of other things that
we are going to get back to the arcade
and what happened next, but there's a
couple of the things that sprung to mind
when you talked about how people can
make real businesses, fake businesses,
have various different covers. The the
next one was you mentioned Edward
Snowden earlier and in mentioning Edward
Snowden, you used him as an example of
someone who returns to the country that
they were working for the whole time.
So
with Snowden in the Snowden case in in
specific, right, whenever somebody flees
their own home country,
>> yeah,
>> nobody gives them protection for free.
Even in the United States, we don't give
anybody protection for free. You have to
earn it. You have to share some sort of
currency and that currency may not be
cash dollars. That currency might be
information.
So when Snowden leaked to the Guardian
the operations at NSA that were
collecting against American citizens,
the same American citizens that Gihei
was just talking about, right? Nobody
cares about Joe Bob. Everybody cares
about, you know, the person who's
pretending to be an American citizen,
but is in fact a terrorist threat. When
Snowden made his escape, his when he
fleed the United States, he was
essentially trading classified
information, not just the the details of
the NSA case that he whistleblow, but
other confidential information that he
collected specifically as currency to
help him basically pay his way through
Hong Kong and into China or into uh into
Russia.
>> And so he lives in Russia now.
>> He's a Russian citizen. I'm pretty sure
he's also received a Russian award for
heroism. And you think he gave secrets
to Russia about the United States to to
get that? I
>> can almost guarantee you. Yeah. What he
gave, I don't know. But Russia wouldn't
give him that status unless he had given
them something in return.
>> And the other one who sprung to mind as
real business, fake, you know, real
business becomes successful
is the
man on everyone's lips at the moment,
Jeffrey Epstein. M
so Epste's a fascinating case because
Epstein fits all of the primary pillars
of a foreign intelligence asset
collecting information on American
citizens, not an American spy
working for someone else. It's funny
because people keep thinking like CIA
killed him or people keep thinking that
he somehow worked for CIA or maybe even
worked for for MSAD. What I see is the
opposite that he if anything was working
independently maybe even working for
several company or several countries but
collecting information on US people.
>> Is that what you believe?
>> I think that he could have been that. I
don't know that I necessarily believe
that it's true
>> cuz he was a very successful business
person. He had lots of um successful
friends. Actually, I was interviewing
someone the other day and they said that
they met Jeffrey Epstein and Jeffrey
Epstein was really really interested in
their physics and science discoveries
and wasn't interested at all in the
finance year stuff that he was
pretending to or he was purporting to be
involved in. And um this person said to
me it was just really bizarre because he
was only interested in the the physics
and science discoveries we had at
Harvard. he wasn't particularly
interested in finance to me and that
person was was like really shocked by
that.
>> What I've learned working with wealthy
people and successful people is that
they're often very intelligent and
they're often misunderstood and part of
the reason that they have grown as
successful as they have grown is because
they don't really fit in anywhere else.
If they would have fit in somewhere
else, they would have been distracted by
the area where they fit in. Instead,
they had to carve their own interests,
their own passions, their own their own
drive. In many ways, when I look at
Epstein, that's that's what I see. I've
also worked with many wealthy people who
have gone to jail. And when wealthy
people go to jail, their whole identity
crumbles and they start to doubt
themselves and they start to have these
irrational thoughts that sound totally
rational to them. I had a client who was
very wealthy, who was going to jail
after being found guilty of a crime that
that arguably couldn't be proven, but
the court system was set up in such a
way that he was found guilty. And he
literally thought that it would be
better if he if he cut off all ties to
his kids and just went to jail and then
even when he got out of jail never
talked to his kids again because that
would be better than shaming his
children for the rest of their life.
>> Yeah.
>> With a father who went to jail. So
there's when I think about the Epstein
case and I think about a wealthy
powerful man who was having parties with
the world's elite and then he goes to
jail and he kills himself. To me that's
not an unbelievable series of events.
the whole thing with the island and the
underage sex and all this stuff, you
know, people just can't seem to shake
the idea that he wasn't extracting
information. And then the fact that they
won't release the flight logs
>> or a list of the names of people that
were frequenting his island or
interacting with him also raises another
question mark about why wouldn't the US
government release that? Why isn't Trump
very quick to release that information?
>> There are lots of secrets that are kept
for lots of reasons. And when we talk
about like if there's anything that
we've learned need to know
the the need part is the driving part.
What is the need to know? There's plenty
of secrets the government has that it
tells the American people it doesn't
know. It's just lying. Of course it
knows. But it's working the common good
to say if you knew what we knew. It
could cause panic. It could cause chaos.
It could cause any number of things. And
in the United States, that is one of the
rights and privileges that the federal
government has.
>> So, what do you both think happened with
the Jeffrey Epstein situation because it
smells fishy to everybody? The fact
that, you know, Trump and Cash Patel and
various other White House officials were
saying we're going to release it the
minute we get in there and then they get
in there and they say there's nothing to
release.
>> You you must cuz you understand this
much more than I would. you must see
like fingerprints of what you think is
actually going on there or the real
reasons they wouldn't release it.
>> When I look at it through a lens of
probabilities,
the most probable
outcome is that somebody in the prison
was hired to hurt Jeffrey Epstein.
That's the most probable outcome that
somebody outside was watching the
Epstein case and knew that Epstein may
or may not have compromising information
on them and that wealthy well-connected
person paid to have a hit inside the
prison. That's just the to me that's the
most probable result of things
happening. That explains the missing
evidence. That explains the videotapes.
That explains the stories inside of
prison where nobody can see what's going
on. Also, that's the most vulnerable
place for Epstein to have been
neutralized. That's how we would have
run an operation.
>> But why why wouldn't the government
release that? Why wouldn't they say a
prisoner killed killed him?
>> The government may not know that cuz if
a if a prisoner was paid to do it, they
may have covered their tracks well
enough. Or they may have paid a prisoner
and the guards to also cover the thing
up. Jail's a nasty place. People forget
how nasty a place jail is. And jails are
commercial. They're not federal for the
most part. So, it's a commercial
business that has all sorts of plausible
deniability that a federal business or a
federal organization, federal building
doesn't have. So that's to me that's the
most probable series of events. There's
still a chance that any number of the
other conspiracies are true. But when I
think of what what I've seen, what my
clients have seen, what what I would do
if I was in the shoes of a foreign
adversary or a foreign intelligence
collection operation dealing with a
Jeffrey Epstein type of situation,
that's how we would clean it up. There
was a a press conference the other day
where the reporters asked the Trump
administration, "Does the Department of
Justice have any indication that Jeffrey
Epstein was working with the US or a
foreign intelligence agency or was he a
spy of some kind?" And Pam Bondi um who
works in the Trump administration said
to him being an agent, "I have no
knowledge about that. We can get back to
you on that."
>> Two really important things here. If
they did have information on that in an
active investigation, she would say, "I
have no knowledge on that." She would
lie to the American public. That's what
that's what you have to do if you're
trying to build a current case. Because
if they acknowledge, we act we have some
reason to believe that he might have
been an agent. Now, all of a sudden,
everybody else out there would start
destroying evidence and start hiding
evidence and start and start making the
case much more difficult. So, if they
knew, they would say they don't know.
>> Do you think he was an agent?
>> I think he could have been. I think he
fits the model of a very good reporting
asset, but I don't have enough evidence
to say that he was actually one.
>> Do you think he was?
>> I mean,
I think even if he I don't know that it
matters is what I think. Like even if he
was, that doesn't mean that it's
connected because he was a lot of
things.
>> So
>> I I think I think people are focused on
it because it's interesting. Yeah.
because it would be interesting if he
was and it would be interesting if there
was this conspiracy. I think that's why
people are focused on it, but I don't
know that it really matters because in
the grand scheme of things,
I mean, it could be a lot of things that
led, you know,
>> why are we talking about a dead guy
who's not reporting?
>> I think it's just the allure, right?
People want answers. Once the curiosity
gap's open, people need to fill it with
something.
>> Correct. When when what the intelligence
community believes is that in any given
moment, there are two penetrations of
every intelligence service.
So, why are we talking about the dead
guy that we don't know about when we're
not talking about the dozens of arrests
and cases that are made every year of
active moles, active penetrations that
are inside of our intelligence
community? Every single one of you
watching this right now has something to
offer, whether it's knowledge or skills
or experience. And that means you have
value. Stands, the platform I co-own,
who are one of the sponsors of this
podcast, turns your knowledge into a
business through one single click. You
can sell digital products, coaching,
communities, and you don't need any
coding experience either. Just the drive
to start. This is a business I really
believe in. And already $300 million has
been earned by creators, coaches, and
entrepreneurs just like you have the
potential to be on Stanto. These are
people who didn't wait, who heard me
saying things like this, and instead of
procrastinating, started building, then
launched something, and now they're
getting paid to do it. Stan is
incredibly simple and incredibly easy,
and you can link it with a Shopify store
that you're already using if you want
to. I'm on it and so is my girlfriend
and many of my team. So, if you want to
join, start by launching your own
business with a free 30-day trial. Visit
stephvenbartlet.stan.store
and get yours set up within minutes.
>> So, take me back to the arcade. You you
lock eyes with this guy, the guy wearing
the uh what was he wearing?
>> Bomber jacket.
>> The bomber jacket.
>> What happens next?
>> Once I realized that we had both made
the same mistake, he darted off in one
direction and I felt burned. Burned is
the term that we use whenever we are
spotted identified as trained
intelligence officers. Um, but I didn't
want to act on being burned right away
because our training says that just just
because you believe something to be
true, you can't act on that truth. If
you act on that truth, then you're
verifying to anybody observing that you
already know you screwed up. So, I kind
of ambled around the arcade and played
another couple of games kind of
half-handed, half-hearted just to kill
some time before I left and finished my
SDR route and finished my collection and
went back to my back to my hotel for the
night. The whole process that I go
through during the surveillance
detection route, the whole process that
I go through to evacuate the country
safely is all part of the details that
we put inside Shadow Cell. But the
feeling that predominated that that
dominated my thought process was just
this feeling of failure. This feeling
like
I was I was a bad spy. I'm bad at what I
do, bad at what I collect. When I think
I'm good, I'm not good. It was just this
humiliating and humbling experience. And
it wasn't helped as I went through the
process of writing the book because as
when you write a book, it's cathartic in
a way because it gets all this stuff
out. But it's also this black and white
kind of stark reminder of all the things
that you've done wrong.
>> What did you do wrong?
>> Whatever I did that got caught was
wrong. If they caught me on my own
behaviors, if the mole was the one that
identified me to them, then I lost the
ability to operate inside a falcon on
that day. I could no longer support the
rest of the shadow cell. I could no
longer support my team. I had a a role
to play and I couldn't play that role
anymore. And
I think that's especially powerful to me
because
I mean, I'm not a case officer. I was
supposed to be a case officer, but I'm
not because when CIA assessed me for
that job, they determined that I
wouldn't be good enough.
>> Okay. So, you already had an insecurity
there.
>> And that was the first year at CIA. So,
even though I built this career and I
had a chance to carry out this
operation, I got to do these amazing
things. All that plays out in the back
of my head is I wasn't good enough then,
I'm not good enough now.
>> One of the things that the CIA does is
they teach you how to deal with head
trash. Mhm.
>> What is head trash?
>> It's funny actually. So head trash is
all the terrible things that you say
about yourself in your head. That's the
the colloquial term that we use is head
trash. I'm not good enough. I'm ugly.
I'm fat. I wish my smile was better. Um,
you know, my I lost my true love when I
was 14. Whatever, right? My my parents
didn't love me because I wasn't a good
enough kid. Whatever it was, all those
things are head trash. They're they're
subjective
thoughts that you have because of your
experience that don't have any basis in
objective reality. CIA teaches us how to
deal with that to a point. They teach us
how to counter that when we are
operationally active so that we don't
get distracted by the head trash going
on. This is what happened whenever I
first knew I was under surveillance.
They teach you how to handle stress,
mitigate uh um cortisol levels in your
bloodstream, lower your heart rate so
that you can get back to the task at
hand.
>> How do they do that?
>> Techniques like box breathing.
>> What's that?
>> Uh box breathing is a process that
that's common in anxiety as well.
>> Yeah. Breathe in four counts, hold four
counts, breathe out four counts, breathe
in for, you know, just uh it's breathing
various breathing techniques where you
breathe in for a certain amount of time,
you hold it for a certain amount of
time, you release it for a certain
amount of time. And and the goal there
is to reduce your heart rate, to reduce
your blood flow, to reduce the speed at
which the cortisol that's being released
from your brain gets spread to the rest
of your body. So you can start to take
back your physiological
movements and actions in a hope that it
also brings back your cognitive
functions and capabilities. So the
visualization process, just like when
you're meditating and you visualize a
victory if you're a professional athlete
or if you visualize a beach if you're
stressing out at work, like you can
visualize your way through an operation,
an operational sequence to get yourself
back to a place where you're in control.
So they teach us how to deal with that
head trash. But what's really
interesting is CIA relies on loyalty in
its people to keep them at CIA. Because
the worst thing for CIA is for a CIA
officer to realize how capable they
actually are. Because when that officer
realizes how smart, how capable, how
resilient, how resourceful they really
are, that person can leave CIA and go do
amazing things. So a big part of what
CIA does is they they train you to be
operationally useful, but then they
still condition you to be like loyal and
needy of outside validation specifically
from them. So it's a very strange
flywheel that exists.
>> A lot of businesses are like that as
well.
>> It's not a healthy relationship, but
it's a very effective relationship.
>> So you get back to your hotel. Are you
not at that point when you're back at
your hotel thinking, "Right, I'm gonna
find like how to get through like the
restaurant kitchen door and like out the
back and I'll cycle back to
because I'd be up all night thinking
about going through that bloody like
restaurant kitchen." A big part of that
is what you do in the second phase of
your SDR. And I had those thoughts. I
thought about I could get on a
motorcycle. I could ride to a local
airfield. I could pay in cash for that
airfield person like a little private
pilot to just fly me on a puddle hopper
puddle jumper somewhere where I walk
across on foot and then I can make a
phone call from another place. Like I
thought about all that all that [__]
right? The problem is if you actually
act on that and you're being watched,
what sense does that make? The only
person who would do that kind of crazy
[__] is somebody who's trying to escape
the country.
>> So what did you do?
>> I went back to the hotel. My plan was to
was to literally just leave. Was to walk
across the border like any other
law-abiding citizen and just evacuate.
>> Walk across the border. fly to to leave
like anybody else would leave and just
gamble that they're not going to take me
down, right? The gamble that I'm going
to be more boring than they will be
confident and that before they arrest
Alex Hernandez and make some sort of
public international incident, they're
going to think twice and they're going
to let me just leave.
>> What actually happened?
So, what actually happened is um I get
back to the hotel. I don't really sleep
at all. I try to use sleep techniques to
get me to sleep because I am certain
that at any given time someone's going
to burst through the door and just take
me down because they already know I'm
changing my flight. They already know
I'm I'm updating my itinerary. I've made
all the phone calls. I've worked it
through my company, right, my cover
company to get me home early. So,
I'm just waiting for them to break in.
They never break in. I go to the airport
the next day and uh on the path to the
airport, I'm looking for surveillance
and I'm surveillance free. And I get to
the airport first thing in the morning
and I'm waiting and like every step I'm
waiting for someone to jump out of the
dark shadows and take me down and drag
me off to prison. And it just doesn't
happen until I get to the first entry
point for the airport. I show my
passport, I show my ticket, and then
they move me into secondary. secondary
meaning where you try to leave a country
and the border patrol says that you're
not you can't leave through the main
gate. You have to go through a second
round of interview. So they pull me off
into a secondary room and I go through a
light interrogation with two local
Falcon officers at like 7:00 in the
morning first first flight out and and
they're testing my story and they're
interrogating me to understand what have
I been doing in the country? Why did I
change my flight? They're going through
my my cover story. They're going through
my my uh meetings from the day before.
They're going through everything two and
three times, which is an it's an
interrogation technique to see if
somebody's lying. And I'm sitting there
going through this whole process,
watching what almost feels like
like two untrained Border Patrol agents
trying to crack me. And it's uh it was a
funny feeling because they were so bad
at their job that it made me feel
confident in myself again.
>> Are you trained on how to deal with
those situations in terms of body
language and how you speak and
>> Absolutely. CIA trains us on how to deal
with uh interviews, how to deal with
interrogations, and even how to deal
with uh actual um capture and and
strategic almost like enhanced
interrogation like what you would call
what we do call torture here in the
United States. And so from your
training, what were you implementing at
that moment in time?
>> Mirroring is a big piece of what you're
supposed to do in an interrogation. So,
so you want to you want to reflect back
to the interrogator what they expect to
see in a person of innocence. So you try
to keep your you keep yourself from
jittering. You you calm your nerves. You
try to match their curiosity. So if they
lean forward, you actually want to lean
forward, too. And if they lean back, you
want to lean back. And if they're using
their hands to talk, you want to use
your hands to talk because you want to
show them that you and them are the
same, that you're not better or worse or
guilty or anything else. So mirroring is
one of the techniques that we're using.
We also I also used minimum information.
There's a process called elicitation,
and you use different elicitation
techniques to get individuals to share
more information than they're supposed
to share. One of those elicitation
techniques is silence. So often times if
you want someone to speak, all you have
to do is sit there and be quiet because
it will force them to talk. This is
something that many interviewers use,
especially when they're border patrol
agents or when they're like law
enforcement or local law enforcement.
They'll just let somebody kind of admit
their guilt. So for me, they ask a
question, I answer their question, and
then we sit there in silence for as long
as we need to sit there until they ask
their next question. And then we sit
there and and I answer their question,
we sit there in silence again. And
that's combating elicitation. It's a
technique that we call counter
elicitation. And that's just one of
several elicitation techniques that
interviewers can use.
>> And that's useful in everyday life, I
guess, as well.
>> Absolutely.
>> In what context?
>> When you're dealing with a negotiation,
when you're dealing with a hostile
employee, when you're dealing with a
hard conversation, when you're trying to
find information in a in another person
who you think is holding information
back, elicitation techniques are
incredibly valuable. You can ask them a
question. You can ask them the same
question twice. that'll help you
identify whether or not they're lying,
if there's a gap in their two answers or
if they answer two different ways. And I
mean, I'm sure you've seen it as a you
you one of the things that makes you
such an effective host in your own house
here is that you use elicitation
techniques all the time. You ask feeling
based questions. How did you feel about
this situation? Uh, take me back to that
moment. How would if you could if you
could be king for a day, what would you
do? Right? These are all very advanced
elicitation techniques because it gets
people to express more than they thought
they would share.
>> So you're in you're in that room in that
airport. These two very poorly trained
guards are trying to get something out
of you. They don't get it out of you.
>> Correct.
>> So at some point they just let you go.
>> Correct. So what ends up happening is
they they're arguing with each other and
I don't know why they're arguing. It
seems like uh from the from the pigeon
words that I can pick up, one of them is
talking about being busy and not having
enough time and this doesn't make sense
and the other person's talking about
we have to do this, this is required,
etc., etc. I don't actually know what
they're saying to each other, but I see
that they're aggression with each other
just keeps going up almost like two
colleagues who are fighting, right? But
at the end of the day, they couldn't
hold me without either releasing me back
to my plane or moving me into a place
where they were going to retain me long
term. So when faced with that kind of
decision, they released me back to my
plane. And then the biggest stress that
I had was not running to my plane
because as soon as they let me out of
the secondary interview, all I wanted to
do was like haul ass to my plane, get on
my plane, and feel safe. But I had to
continue to show that I was not a
trained officer.
>> And at this point, Ji, are you how are
you feeling back in the friendly
country?
>> So, at this point, I still have no idea
what's happening. Um I by the time I
hear from him, he is in the the cutout
country on his way back. So, I know he's
left me a voicemail and I know he's out
of Falcon, the enemy country, which is
great, but I know he's in that third
country. So, I'm like, "Okay, he should
be on his way home." But until then, I
mean, all of this that he was going
through, I didn't find out until he
actually returned home. And then I hear
this story and I'm like, "What the
hell?" Like, like this is absolutely
like our worst nightmare, like what we
did not want to happen. And so
immediately we are like, you know, we go
into action like first it's like I'm so
happy you're home. And then the next
thing is how did this happen? and we
just start taking action into, you know,
investigating like, did we do something
wrong? Like, is there any any mistake
that we could have made and we have to
research and go back through all of our
own stuff? And, you know, and then we
have to make the assessment of can Andy
ever go back in, you know, was this
really what we think it was or, you
know, is he safe to like is his alias
safe, you know, and then we have to
>> And what was your assessment? Did you
think he could go back in?
>> No, it was too risky. Yeah. We we assess
that Alex Hernandez was burned.
>> Was burned. Yeah.
>> And we assume
>> Alex Hernandez being your undercover spy
name.
>> Correct. The alias the the operating
alias that we used.
>> Uh and we assume that the cutout
country, the third country that Alex was
traveling through. So anytime Falcon
wanted to track Alex, they would track
him back to that third country. Alex
would even use the Falcon airline to fly
back and forth between the third country
and Falcon specifically so that if
Falcon intelligence ever suspected Alex,
they would feel that much more
comfortable knowing that they had flight
manifests on him going back to a third
country. So, we just assumed from our
study that Alex was fully burned that
that the mole had come across either
Alex's operational history or the mole
had come across my true name operational
history and tied me to Alex. Whichever
one it was, Alex was burned. But we also
assessed that everybody else who had
been traveling to Falcon through the
cell was still safe.
>> Mhm.
>> So you assessed that your shadow cell,
which was your team in the friendly
country, were all fine.
>> Yeah.
>> But Alex Hernandez, which was your
alias, was could no longer be used.
>> Correct. That and that was how the cell
was built. The cell was built where Alex
Hernandez was the trip wire where the
first person who be compromised would be
Alex and that would be the forewarning
to everybody else so they could start to
turn up their operational security.
>> So does that mean it's it's game over
for you?
>> For me in Falcon it's game over. I can I
can never go back. I can never go back
in my true name. I can never go back in
an alias name. Um all of my biometrics
meaning my fingerprints, my eye prints,
like all of that is most likely
compromised. all of Alex Hernandez, uh,
everything that I carried on me, all the
digital platforms that I carried on me,
which were all airgapped and isolated to
just Alex, all of those things we have
to assume have been collected and and
and um, synthesized and reverse
engineered.
>> And you were running a real fake
business, right?
>> Well, yeah, I was I was a middle
manager. I was a middle manager in the
very fake business.
>> Oh, you're a middle manager. And that
was a business set up by the CIA. Okay.
So, is that in part why you both decided
to leave the CIA? Did did the shadow
cell operation end at that moment?
>> After shortly after Andy was
compromised, we found out that we were
pregnant and we were hoping to be able
to stay on at Wolf to continue because I
could have kept doing everything exactly
the same.
>> Wolf being the friendly country.
>> Exactly. And being in the friendly
country, I could have, you know, done
all my targeting from there, no problem.
And then we could have, you know, Andy
still could have helped. He just
couldn't travel into the enemy country
anymore. But headquarters decided that
we had been so successful and we were
continuing to be successful by spreading
the cell model to these to the other
locations that they wanted us to come
home to Washington DC and train
officers, train newer officers back at
headquarters on how the cell model
worked and um the new techniques we had
come up with. The worst part is we had a
conversation about
what meant more to us CIA or family.
And without saying it, we were both
landing on CIA. And we start thinking,
how do we not give up CIA to have a
family? So we approach the agency and we
tell them, you know, that we have this
idea. If you'll put us on light duty,
just give us some cush job for like four
years. We'll pump out our second baby.
We'll get our first one old enough to go
to school. We'll get our second one old
enough for a nanny. And then you can
throw us back into the fray. They do
that for other officers when they're not
successful officers. But when you're a
successful officer, they have different
plans and they try to just push you and
push you and push you. So they rejected
our offer and they said no to soft duty
and they put us back and they told us,
you know, gee, he's going to go to this
office and do this very sensitive thing
and you're going to go do this other
very sensitive thing and we don't, your
family's not our problem. And it was at
that moment, I think, that we both
realized
CIA is never going to let us focus on a
family. We're always going to be focused
on the mission. That's what their job
is. That's their number one purpose
where if if our number one purpose is to
be parents, we need to make a change.
>> What did the shadow cell accomplish
in terms of the information or strategic
objectives that it accomplished?
So the shadow cell
really did do what what we started out
you know what what the miss really did
complete the mission that we started out
to do and that was to find new
intelligence sources and we were really
successful in doing that
>> and it accomplished a secondary goal. We
didn't know the effectiveness that the
shadow cell had in feriting out the mole
until after we had left CIA. We found
out that the mole that we had been
plagued by was actually arrested by FBI
in I think it was 2019.
>> It was later.
>> So, but the case file that had
identified that mole started all the way
back with our operations. So, it was
successful in fariting out the mole. It
was successful in building new
intelligence sources inside of Falcon.
It was successful in maintaining the
United States's intelligence advantage
against this adversary at a time when
all of our other operations were
compromised by the mole. I think what
Ji's talking about is an completely
unexpected benefit in that our model
seemed to have become the foundation for
a massive restructuring at CIA in 2014,
just two years after our cell model when
I was uh when I escaped Falcon. Two
years after that, John Brennan, then
director of CIA, rolled out a an entire
reorganization of CIA that was based off
of the same cell model that we had
built.
>> Was this the mole?
>> We cannot confirm or deny anything about
the mole.
>> I will say this that if you if you
research the time that that man was
arrested, you'll find two other people
>> who were also CIA moles at the same
period of time. same period of time.
>> So, the work that you did overseas, um,
you believe helped lead to the capture
of this mole?
>> The work that we did overseas, we
believe helped capture the mole that
that Falcon House was out to capture.
>> And do you believe that the mole
leaked secrets to the enemy country that
ended up being the reason why they knew
that you were a spy? That was the
assessment that we reached inside our
own cell as well as what the counter
intelligence center which is the covert
espionage group that Gi was talking
about earlier. Their conclusion of the
facts was the same that we did not make
any error in our operations. There was
no no uh compromise in my behavior, no
compromise in my operations, no
compromise of our systems or our
communication methods. That the only way
that Falcon could have found out about
me was through a leak from the mole.
>> How did the mole get caught in the end?
What did they do wrong?
>> It's a great question. So, um, FBI
created a sting operation based off of
the intelligence that we were able to
collect through our operations that that
brought the mole out. So, FBI created a
series of sting operations where they
baited the mole into coming back onto
American territory. And when the mole
stepped foot on American territory, they
had enough of a legal case that they
could arrest him at the airport and then
prosecute him in a court of law. and
what was discovered about the mole and
the work that they were doing and how
long they were doing it for and what
they were being paid or given to do to
snitch on the United States.
>> So the details that that I know that I
know we can share.
>> Mhm.
>> Um they were paid hundreds of thousands
of dollars. They were not paid into the
millions, but they were paid hundreds of
thousands of dollars to provide
information on operations, officers,
assets, locations. They were witting,
meaning they knew that they were working
with a foreign intelligence agency. They
didn't believe they were working with a
company. They didn't believe they were
working for a research institute. They
knew they were working with a known
foreign intelligence organization. Um,
and that the original ally who gave us
the information about the mole, that
original ally actually also retained
incriminating data on the behaviors of
that person that were shared with the
Department of Justice.
>> And so was this this was an individual
who was in the CIA who was approached by
this enemy country and the enemy country
said to him, "If you give us secrets on
what the CIA are doing against us, then
we'll give you hundreds of thousands of
dollars. We'll give you something. We'll
give you cash at least as part of it. We
may also give you other things. Here's
the the nasty thing about espionage is
cash is usually only one of several
rewards. There's also operations where
uh where the cash is there so that when
you're arrested, the your country that
arrests you believe that that's what
your motivation was while all of your
real money is kept in a separate account
that's saved within the actual currency
of the country that you're serving. So
this person, they were in the CIA
as a mole, leaking secrets about the
CIA. They then left at some point and
then the FBI set up a trap to get them
to come back.
>> Correct.
>> When they left, did they go to the
adversarial country?
>> We can't confirm those details because
to confirm those details starts to give
more insight into who the mole was.
>> Okay. But they they managed to because I
was of thinking I was just wondering if
this the other the enemy countries offer
them like lifetime protection or
something.
>> They do. So your enemy countries will
offer you lifetime protection. They'll
offer you multiple generations worth of
payment. So even if you're arrested,
don't worry. Your kids will be taken
care of and their kids will be taken
care of. Uh you've got citizenship like
the case of Edward Snowden who's
received citizenship. Sometimes they
offer uh rewards and accomod and uh
accolades in their own home country.
There's a a number of very strange and
compelling offers that come about from
foreign intelligence services. When you
think about a double agent, when you
think about a spy who turns on their own
country, it's less about thinking that
they're paid to do it. Spies aren't
motivated usually by money. We weren't
motivated by money. We're motivated by
that that very unhealthy relationship
where you have to be validated by
somebody else. And that same environment
that CIA creates where all of its
internal officers have to be able to
fight their own head trash but still
seek validation from within their
organization. That unhealthy
relationship is something that can be
compromised and a foreign intelligence
service can find an intelligence officer
and fill that void for them and validate
for them and say you're talented and
you've got promise and you've got
potential and we see it and your own
home service doesn't understand how
important you are and your own home
service doesn't understand how valuable
you are. If you'll help us with this, we
can reward you with money. We can reward
you with citizenship. We can reward your
children with future residency and with
college and and we can make you a very
wealthy person. All the things that you
worked for that your country would never
give you.
>> Did the mole admit that they had been a
mole?
>> I do not believe so.
>> I don't believe so.
>> I also believe that that most espionage
cases when they actually go to court,
>> they're not tried under the Espionage
Act. they're tried under some gentler
term, some gentler, lesser offense that
is easier to prove, but also helps the
government protect its reputation
against being penetrated.
>> So, this individual, they left the CIA,
flew to this other country, they came
back, and they tried to rejoin the CIA
to get more information. Well, they
tried to rejoin a federal agency and
that was that was how the FBI was able
to to lure them and how they were also
able to
>> for for an interview.
>> Yeah. For an interview and how they were
able to get them on American soil.
>> Interesting.
So I do want to share that that your
curiosity right now is a major issue
with CIA because they already know they
already know that very smart people out
there are going to know that there's a
way there must be a way to reverse
engineer the whole story who to find out
who is Falcon or to find out where is
Falcon to find out where is Wolf to find
out who is who is the mole right and
what's going to be what's fascinating is
that We we have put every effort that we
can into the story to make sure that
it's not traceable because
CIA had several penetrations at the same
time during our tenure at CIA. And
that's both depressing and encouraging
because it's encouraging in that it
shows that what we were doing was
parallel to what many other officers
were doing. We wrote the book Shadow
Cell, but that doesn't mean we were the
only two people that were tapped on the
shoulder to carry out experimental new
operations.
>> They could have asked five, seven, 12
other people to go carry out new
operations to try to far it out this
multi-penetration
of CIA at the time. But it's also
discouraging because it's one of those
areas that keeps these stories from
being shared because CIA doesn't want
the world to know that it was penetrated
by multiple people. It doesn't want the
world to know who those people were. If
it did, it would have disclosed this
long ago.
>> Well, obviously my research team tried
to figure out who it was.
>> And the diary of a CEO research team is
not a team to take lightly. So, I'm a
little bit afraid to hear their
conclusions.
>> Well, based on our own research,
um, we thought that the mole was likely
Jerry Chung Singh Lee, who spied for
China around the time of the book. Jerry
began spying for China after leaving the
CIA, then tried to rejoin the agency,
was allowed to leave the country by the
FBI, and was arrested in 2018 at the
airport when he returned to the USA,
just like the mole in the book. But it
also says here, Andrew will not comment
on whether he is actually the mole or
not. So there's no point asking you if
that's
if he is the mole.
>> We have you been to China.
We are under legal obligation to to
neither confform neither confirm nor
deny uh the results of your research
team but also the results of anybody
else's research if they reach out to us
and and ask for confirmation on who this
who the mole may or may not be.
>> Has being in the CIA changed the way
that you view reality and human beings?
>> Oh yeah.
>> In what ways?
>> Very much so. So
>> I love this question and I really want
you to be honest. Can you please share
with Steve how you went from your
college beliefs to your postcia beliefs?
>> So when I worked with refugees that was
my first big turning point that humans
can be really nasty. Like I grew up
Buddhist and so it was always like
humans have the potential to be amazing
and I agree that's true. But when I
worked with refugees, I realized that
humans can be horrible and your you know
I worked with Bosnians and um and I
worked with uh refugees from Rwanda
where you know their neighbors literally
turned on them. People who they had
grown up with literally the next day
came over with a machete or came over
with a gun and killed their family
members and chased them through forests
or through whatever. And that can happen
anywhere. That was the first time that I
realized that anytime somebody says that
can't happen here, that's a lie. That
can happen anywhere. None of those
people ever thought, "Oh, yeah, that
could happen here." None of those people
ever thought that. People always think
that can't happen here. My neighbor
would never do that to me. And that's
not true. And then when I worked for
CIA, I, you know, that compounded the
sense of like the world behind the
scenes is a dangerous place and you
can't fully. I sound horrible saying
these things. You can't fully trust
anybody. I mean, the reason I'm with
Andy is because I trust Andy 100%.
But he might be the only person that I
trust everything that comes out of his
mouth.
>> Yeah. You only trust me like 98%.
>> Well, you know. Yeah. But I know I can
get that other 2% out of you. That's
why. So, you know, you really like you
always have to understand that people
are a combination of good and bad. And
while I wish while I would like to think
that people would always try to heir to
the good, I always have to keep in mind
that people have a bad side to them and
they and there's any set of
circumstances that could trigger that.
>> Do you think we're in one such moment?
>> I think we're always in a moment. I
think some part of the world is always
in that moment.
>> What about the United States? cuz I know
Andy said when we had the conversation
the other day that he was going to try
and leave the United States before 2026.
>> Well, it's not just me alone leaving.
>> Yeah. Well, maybe we have different
motivations. I don't know.
>> Are you staying, Ji? Cuz he says he's
leaving.
>> I've been the one who's been pushing to
leave for years.
>> Why? How would you sort of summarize the
situation that the like western world
and the United States are in right now
from your perspective with what you
know?
Are these good times? Jiheis was born in
Venezuela. What was Venezuela like in
the 80s?
>> Oh, it was nice.
>> It was one of the world's best
economies. It was a thriving democracy.
It was an excellent place
>> with a large wealth gap.
>> Jihi's parents.
>> Her father came from a wealthy family,
>> a wealthy Venezuelan family. That's how
they moved to Japan. It's not easy to
pick up and move a family of four to
Japan or family of three and then have a
child in Japan, right? All of that
wealth that they had in 1980 when Ji was
born was gone in 19
>> just a few years later. Yeah. I think 80
85 maybe
>> five years. And Venezuela went from
being one of the most successful
thriving democracies with a strong
economy. It went from that to what it is
now. There is no shaking that reality
from Jihei or from her family. M
>> so if there's anybody in the United
States right now who is acutely aware of
how fast everything can go sour, it's my
wife. And that's why what I certainly
find is this uncompromising commitment
to moving in large part because you
can't wed yourself to any one system
>> unless you want to be available to the
detriment of that system.
>> Yeah, I believe in being mobile.
[Laughter]
>> We rent. We don't buy.
>> As you might have been able to tell, I'm
absolutely fascinated by the psychology
behind high performing sports teams. I
think it started with my love for Sir
Alex Ferguson as a Manchester United
fan. So, when I was told about a new
Netflix series that covers the rise of
the Dallas Cowboys, it immediately
piqued my interest. And this isn't
because I'm mad about American football.
I'm not. I don't even watch it. But I do
know about the Dallas Cowboys. And for a
lot of Texans, they're much more than a
sports team. I watched this series and
it is absolutely
brilliant. It centers on Jerry Jones, an
oil businessman with no football
background who bought the Cowboys in the
late 80s and transformed them into the
most valuable sports franchise in the
world. It's all about how one guy
assembled a powerhouse team in the 1990s
made up of legendary players and coaches
and through fearless decision-making led
his team to three Super Bowl victories.
And I really enjoyed it and I think you
might too. Check out America's Team, The
Gambler and His Cowboys, which is
streaming right now only on Netflix. And
they now sponsor this podcast. I've just
invested millions into this and become a
co-owner of the company. It's a company
called Ketone IQ. And the story is quite
interesting. I started talking about
ketosis on this podcast and the fact
that I'm very low carb, very, very low
sugar, and my body produces ketones,
which have made me incredibly focused,
have improved my endurance, have
improved my mood, and have made me more
capable at doing what I do here. And
because I was talking about it on the
podcast, a couple of weeks later, these
showed up on my desk in my HQ in London,
these little shots. And oh my god, the
impact this had on my ability to
articulate myself, on my focus, on my
workouts, on my mood, on stopping me
crashing throughout the day was so
profound that I reached out to the
founders of the company and now I'm a
co-owner of this business. I highly,
highly recommend you look into this. I
highly recommend you look at the science
behind the product. If you want to try
it for yourself, visit
ketone.com/stephven
for 30% off your subscription order. And
you'll also get a free gift with your
second shipment. That's
ketone.com/stephven.
And I'm so honored that once again a
company I own can sponsor my podcast.
Are there any particular skills that
people who are trying to be successful
in their average life, because this is
called the D of a CEO,
>> that you learned through your time at
the CIA that you think are most useful
for people to be successful, however you
define that, in their day-to-day lives.
>> The first thing I want to say is that
our book Shadow Cell talks not
necessarily about awesome spies. It
talks about how we went back to the
basics. We went back to foundational
espionage, what we call at CIA, sticks
and bricks. We gave up all the
technology. We gave up all the fancy
satellites. We gave up all the drones.
And we went back to build off of strong
foundations. And we didn't do that
because we're smart. We did that because
the terrorist groups that won the global
war on terror were using bricks and
stones and sticks.
>> Mhm.
>> And they were winning over an American
Department of Defense that had a $900
billion budget every year. We spent $8
trillion in the global war on terror
only to evacuate Afghanistan. All of
that happened because they were using
foundational tools that we couldn't
crack. And in the shadow cell, that's
all we did. We used foundational tools
that proved to dominate time after time.
And there's so much in everyday life.
And there's so much in business from
marketing to sales to budgeting to
hiring practices to, you know, annual
and semiannual reviews. There's so much
that businesses can take from this basic
idea of never let go of the foundations.
Never let go of your sticks and bricks.
>> What advice would you give to the
average person in generally just
generally in their life, you know, about
how to live a good life based on what
you've seen, what you know now, and how
you look at the world.
>> For me, a good life is a life spent
doing the things you want to do, the
things that bring you joy when you have
the age and the energy to do them. It
makes me super sad whenever I meet
people who wait until their 60s and they
retire to be free to try and travel and
and that's when they focus on learning
the guitar and that's when they focus on
art and their body just can't keep up
with them. Their body can't travel like
it used to travel. They have a shake in
their hand. They can't paint anymore but
they they believed for 30 years that it
would be better when they retire instead
of acting on it right now. And
for me, it's it's all about finding joy
in the moment today. My son is 12. He
plays chess now. He wants to play video
games with me now. He wants to go deep
into details about his favorite manga
comics right now. All of that could be
different in 5 days. My daughter is
seven doing handstands and doing
cartwheels and all she wants is for
daddy to to give her a shoulder massage
at night and tell embarrassing stories
about my childhood to her while she
falls asleep. That's what she wants now.
All that could be gone and never come
back in 6 months. I have to do it now.
If I don't do it now, it'll never
happen. I won't be able to wait until
I'm wealthy. I won't be able to wait
until I sell a company. I won't be able
to wait until I retire and then try to
get these moments back now. So, what can
I do? I ask myself every day, what can I
do right now to maximize the joy that I
get right now? Because it's not just my
joy that's happening. It's also the joy
that I'm giving to the people who want
my time and space. My wife, my kids, my
peers, my clients. What can I do to
bring joy to myself will bring joy to
others.
>> Why does that matter so much? I can see
it in I can see it in your face.
>> My life is filled with people who failed
to figure that out. My life is filled
with a with a mother who kept waiting to
to do the things that she wanted to do
and now she still doesn't get to do it.
And grandparents who retired poor and
family members who retired poor and
people who died early and people who got
hurt and can't walk and
>> you know I called your mother.
>> We spoke to your mother.
>> Did you call my mom?
>> Yeah. And when I asked her this question
I said to I said to your mother I said
um what's your relationship like with
Andy? And she burst into tears. Did she
really?
>> She went on to say how proud she was of
you, but it was telling that she she
burst into tears when she was asked that
particular question.
>> That's awesome. I'm I'm glad that you
called her. I I I talked to Ji about
this often because I don't I never had a
relationship with my father and my
relationship with my stepfather was very
bad. I go into some of that in the book
as well. And uh I as an adult only
project
negative assumptions on what they must
have intended because that's what I was
shaped to believe as a child. I can't
confidently project positive
expectations on them because as a child
I never believed they were doing
anything positively. I believed my mom
was career focused and I believed that
my mom didn't really want to be a mom. I
believed that my mom didn't really want
to be married to the man she was married
to. And that's what I believed as a kid.
So now as an adult, that's my
foundation. Ji's foundation with her
parents is completely different. Like
it's incredible now because like the the
disparity between my negative thoughts
of my youth and Jihi's positive memories
from her youth are starkly contrasted.
And that's why I want to give my
children something like my what my wife
had.
>> And what's your answer to that jih in
terms of what you want next?
So when I was younger, I was brought up
with this idea of a destination. So I
did everything I was supposed to do. Got
good grades in school, went to college,
went to grad school, got a career with
the federal government. It was really
good. And then we left CIA. And I was
like, but I had made it. Like I had I
rode that train. I did everything I was
supposed to do and I made it. So what
are we doing now? And it was a really
hard transition for me. But now that,
you know, we have the kids and we have
our business, you know, and I've gone
through a lot of therapy,
you know, I realize that Andy has been
right all along. It really is. You never
know what the next moment is going to
bring. And so, you have to enjoy every
moment that you have right now. You
know, don't put off that trip until next
year. Do it as soon as you can. Don't,
you know, like those dishes don't need
to get washed right now. if your kid
wants to read a book with you, like you
can just put that off for a little bit.
Um, so I've it's taken me a long time,
but Andy and I are now aligned on the
like live every moment with as much joy
as you can because and to my other
point, like you you never know when
shit's going to hit the fan. So enjoy it
now because you never know when you
might have to, you know, flee your house
cuz you're, you know, it catches fire or
flee the country because a war breaks
out or, you know,
>> getting arrested in a foreign country.
>> Yeah. Getting arrested in a foreign
country. And I'm a big believer of
seeing the the writing on the wall. I
don't think that, you know, my advice to
people is don't be complacent. Just like
Andy said, you know, don't be complacent
in your business, but don't be
complacent in your life either. Like
when be as before World War II kicked
off, there was tons of writing on the
wall of what was coming and people just
kept thinking to themselves that can't
happen here. It can't get that bad, can
it?
>> You're trying to tell me something.
>> So the writing on the wall for Americans
is that we are transitioning into
something new. We will never go back to
what we were. And so you either need to
be a part of creating the new America
>> or you need to start thinking about
where else you're going to go because
the America we knew before no longer
exists and it will never come back.
>> This is new America now. So you either
take part in it or you leave.
>> Okay. So what is old America under your
definition?
>> So old America, you know, and I'm I'm
not that old. So, you know, old America
in my lifetime has been a series of
uh you know, the the government
appearing to work together, you know,
the appearing to do things, you know, to
improve the lives of people, but also I
think becoming complacent over time.
Like the last several terms, we've had a
strong executive that has slowly become
stronger, which I don't think is the way
that we should be going, but that's
what's happened. and a Congress who is
constantly in deadlock. So nothing is
happening. And so we continue like I
mean the the immigration problem. Why is
the immigration problem a problem? This
could have been fixed decades ago
honestly. Like decide what you want for
immigration. Decide what you want your
policy to be. Right? And the policy
clearly I think most people agree isn't
open doors. So if it's not open doors,
what do you want? and then make that
policy happen. So, you know, I think I
think we've had a history now of an
executive getting stronger. For some
reason, the American people want a
strong man.
>> So, when you say the executive,
>> you mean the president?
>> The president. Yeah.
>> The president's getting more power to do
things.
>> Yes. Because
>> for a period of time, it was because
Congress didn't want to make their own
decision. So, they pushed the power to
the president. And then in probably the
last 16 years, we've seen the president
take more power, execute more executive
orders. So whether you like it or not,
we're in a period now where there's a
strong executive. When anybody gets
power, it's very unlikely they're going
to let it go.
>> So do you think Trump's not going to go
anywhere?
>> I think the executive Trump is the
current executive, whoever the next
executive and the executive after that,
they will continue to retain their
executive powers.
>> Yeah. this doesn't benefit them to let
go of the office of the executives
powers.
>> So jih if that's the old America where
it it got slightly more complacent,
there was more power and increasingly
more power given to the president.
>> Mhm.
>> You're saying we're in a transitional
moment now.
>> What does that new America look like on
the end of that transition in your view?
>> So I don't think we have a good idea of
what it's going to look like. I think
the current administration is taking a
lot of risks that I find interesting.
>> Interesting is a very
neuting
[Music]
is the real word because I think that
he's taking a lot of risks that really
break down
how how things have been for a long
time. So, you know, getting rid of uh,
you know, pulling money from Medicaid
and Medicare, getting rid of USA ID, you
know, transitioning from soft power to
hard power.
>> Hard power being dropping bombs on Iran.
>> Yes. So, we're giving more money to
military and we're taking money away
from, you know, aid basically. So, we're
making that shift. We're making, you
know, various economic shifts,
immigration shifts, and I don't think we
I think there's a lot of unnecessary
panic about all of it because whether I
agree with his methods or not, I think
that that we just have to wait for
things to settle out. And if something
doesn't work, you know, I think he's the
type of guy that's going to take another
risk and see if he can fix it or that if
it doesn't work by the time the next
administration comes in, they'll have to
do something with it. you know, like
there nothing stops. Everything keeps
going. So, you know, I I don't know that
this I don't know that America is
heading for a future that I want to be a
part of. I think that's for me. I think
that's a true statement.
But I think there's a lot of Americans
out there who this is the path that they
want to take.
>> What is your perspective on everything
Jihi just said? The transition that's
happening right now is a transition
where we where the American people have
to decide how much they want to get
involved and how much they want to let
other people just do it for them. And
Donald Trump is a I'll do it for you
kind of guy. And Joe Biden was also an
I'll do it for you kind of guy. And
Obama was an I'll do it for you kind of
guy. And we are electing people who will
do it for us.
>> Do what for us? Whatever whatever nasty
thing we don't want to deal with,
budgeting,
currencies, hard work, foreign trade,
foreign relations, wars, we don't. We
want to be able to just talk about it
without having any blood on our hands.
So, we push that responsibility to our
government when in fact our founding
fathers were the opposite. Our found our
founding fathers were, "Hey, the blood
is on all of your hands. You tell us
what you want us to do. Do you want a
revolution? Then let's go fight a
revolution together. Do you want to
build a new government? Then we'll build
a new government together. That's that's
how our country was supposed to be
formed.
So when Ji says that we're in a
transition and she doesn't know where
it's going, she is accurate. We don't
know what the future holds. Except we
know the future holds more pain for sure
>> because we will either come out of this
through a painful transition that makes
us better or we will come out of this
through a less painful transition that
leaves us in a position that none of us
want to be in and then we're going to
have to put in more pain to fix it all
again.
>> And how do you think the transition
levels out? Where do you think we end up
if you had to guess?
>> I think that we have a solid 60/40 right
now. I think there's a 60% chance that
we don't like where the transition ends
and then we spend 15 to 25 years fixing
it again. Fixing our economy, fixing our
superpower status, fixing our foreign
relations, fixing our fixing our trust
of our own government. I think there's a
40% chance that the the decisive action
Donald Trump is taking right now is
adopted widescale and we actually
stimulate our economy, get people back
on the same page and and move forward in
a way that keeps us one step ahead of
our of the threats that we see from
China, the disaster that we see
continuing to unfold in the Middle East,
the the precipice that we have come up
against in terms of geopolitics. There's
a chance that we come out of that, but I
think the dominant chance is that we
don't. And I I would say that that's not
just my opinion. That's the opinion of
economists of of economists. That's the
opinion of foreign uh foreign relation
experts. There are multiple people out
there who are all saying that our
budgetary decisions, our foreign policy
decisions, our military infrastructure
decisions, our economic decisions are
risky. risky means there's a chance
they'll work, but it's a low probability
chance, not a high probability chance.
>> In such a scenario, then the economy
would would be hurt and then there'd be
more wars presumably because if we're if
the society becomes more individualistic
and focused on themsel and
nationalistic, then they become more of
an island. People get more paranoid.
They start building, I know Trump said
he's building like the he's calling it
the Golden Dome over the United States
so that he can fire any rockets out of
the air if anyone attacks. And then you
kind of have to unravel that and try and
go the other way potentially. Is that
kind of what you're saying?
>> I try to do as much reading as I can.
I'm sure you're the same way. And uh one
of my gifts to myself is when I read
fiction and I'm reading a book called
the the left hand of darkness by a
sci-fi legend named Ursa Din. And it's a
book from the 70s. And I'm reading this
book and in it she has this quote where
she talks about nationalism inside the
the world of the science fiction planet
that she's on, right? And the the quote
is something like nationalism is not a
product of pride. It's a product of
fear.
>> People aren't nationalistic because
they're proud of what they have. They're
nationalistic because they're afraid
that something might take away what they
have. And anytime you are driven by
fear, you don't have the chance for true
happiness. And what I found in that that
passage from the sci-fi book was really
very insightful to what I see happening
across the United States. We're all
nationalistic, left and right, gay and
straight. Whether you whether you are
old or young, we're all nationalistic.
We all love our country. But the things
that's driving so much of our
nationalism is this fear of the other
side. Not a fear of the collapse of our
society, not the fear of some rising
power across the ocean. But for some
reason, we're more afraid of our
neighbor than we are afraid of the real
threats that are out there. Because at
the end of the day, there California and
Mississippi have much more in common
than the United States and China. But
for whatever reason, we get so
distracted and so confused with our own
infighting, that we don't realize that
infighting is exactly what all of our
adversaries from Russia to North Korea
to Cuba to even even uh you know,
Bulgaria, which is a NATO country that's
pro-Russia, our infighting just helps
them.
>> And and what's the potential worst case
scenario of that infighting? Because
people think, okay, it just means people
are going to pop off each other on on X
and Twitter and social media and they're
going to scream at each other and then
>> gridlock is the biggest challenge. I I
don't believe that we're going to be
going into any kind of civil war in the
United States. We're not going to shoot
each other. We're not going to go
machete our neighbors. Not now. But
gridlock is going to lead to economic
collapse. economic collapse is going to
lead to very real individuals having
very real problems which is going to
lead to an increase in criminal
activity. People will steal from each
other. People steal from from stores.
People will you know lie and hurt each
other to try to take care of their own.
And as that society starts to collapse
and we become more and more tribal again
all very predictable all all case
studies that we've seen all over the
world. As we become more and more
tribal, then we will become fed upon by
our adversaries who don't have the same
problem.
>> When you said gridlock is the the first
sort of domino that falls there. What is
gridlock?
>> I see gridlock is policy gridlock. We
don't know how to move forward with
Israel. We don't know how to move
forward with the budget. We don't know
how to move forward with whether or not
we ratify these election results. Right?
And in the p in the time that we don't
know how to move forward, it creates an
opportunity for somebody else to bypass
the democratic process and just dictate
the outcome. And that series of
dictations makes it so that the outcome
is less collaborative, less well thought
out, less well defined, less palatable
for more people. And then that distrust
kind of continues on. We do live in a
moment now where the distrust for
government is higher than it's been in a
long time. We see the we see the largest
decline in American currency that we've
seen in decades and in century in a in
the better part of a century. We see a
lack of public trust. We see consistent
presidential approval ratings below 50
for every president that comes through.
We we are in a place where the people
just don't trust their own government.
And I would say that that's not such a
big deal except that we are the
wealthiest country in the world. We are
the largest
military in the world. We are the
largest producer of financial tools and
the largest producer of weapons. We are
a big [__] deal to not have our [__]
together.
Welcome to the United States.
>> Shadow Cell, an insiders account of
America's new spy wall by Andrew
Bustamante and Jihei Bustamante.
It is a fascinating book because usually
the public doesn't get to read books
like this and for the reasons you said
because they're so highly scrutinized
and then
ultimately decided to be confidential by
the CIA. But this one managed to get
through. So I highly recommend everybody
reads it. We've touched on some of the
surface level elements of this, but if
you want the details of what happened,
then this is a book good book to read.
But it also just gives you a window into
a world that most of us live in
ignorance to cuz we don't we don't
realize these things happen. It's
actually from doing this podcast that I
that things that I thought were
conspiracy theories became not
conspiracy theories, you know.
>> Yes.
>> Because before I started this podcast
and started to speak to people like you
and other guests that I've had, I
thought that well, I was watching
podcasts and thinking, "No, that's
[__] No, that's [__] That
doesn't happen. There's these like spies
that that's not going to happen. There's
no way that like one country spies on
another. There's no way that like, you
know, people go undercover into
countries and get secrets and do all
these crazy things." I thought that was
movies, but actually that happens and
all countries are doing it to each
other. And I imagine even the United
States is doing it to some of their
allies. Like I imagine the United States
probably has spies in the UK, for
example.
>> The the United States doesn't claim to
spy on the Five Eyes countries, and the
Five Eyes have all claimed not to spy on
each other. Um, but that's just a claim.
>> We have a closing tradition on this
podcast where the last guest leaves a
question for the next guest, not knowing
who they're leaving it for. And the
question left for both of you to answer
individually is how did a mistake you
made shift the trajectory of your life
in a way you could not have predicted?
>> I would say that the mistake I made that
shifted the tra that truly shifted the
trajectory of my life was staying with
my ex-boyfriend for so long. Um because
I we'd been together a year and
I knew it then the relationship was
already troubled and I was applying to
the Peace Corps right out of college.
But I also knew that if I joined the
Peace Corps and I went overseas, the
relationship wouldn't survive. And for
some reason, I chose the relationship
over PeaceCore. And because I chose the
relationship over the Peace Corps, I
ended up going to grad school. so I
could stay with him. And then because I
went to grad school and the relationship
drained me of all of my money, I ended
up applying to the CIA. And if I hadn't
been in that relationship, I never would
have joined the CIA ever. I never would
have met Andy. I wouldn't have the kids
I have right now. I wouldn't have the
life I have right now. So, arguably a
mistake to stay in a bad relationship
for seven years, but I wouldn't be where
I am today without that.
It's hard for me to answer the question
because I I keep finding myself coming
to the same conclusion that Ji came to
that all of the mistakes that I think
about making all led to a sequence of
events that brings me to where I am now.
So I'll actually give a more recent
example that is changing the course of
my life right now. In 202
I hired the first executive into my
company, the first kind of equal
executive to me as a CEO. And I hired
that person because they came well
recommended. I hired that person because
they had a a long track record of
success. I hired that person because
they seemed to understand a lot of
things about business that I didn't
understand and it was time for for me to
scale and it was an important thing to
for me as a CEO to lead the charge by
hiring the right people and then in the
following 16 months that person
lost the company individually
a half a million dollars and then put us
into debt almost another $215,000.
So, a giant $730ish,000
mistake in one 16-month period of time.
And throughout that whole time, I I saw
the mistakes. I saw the errors. And I
kept convincing myself not to take
action. I kept thinking, "This is just
what scaling must look like. This person
must know what they're doing." Like, you
have to spend money to make money. Uh we
have to we have to prepare for the
future. Like, I kept rationalizing every
step. Oh, this was just a
misunderstanding. Oh, this was just a
this was something that will pay off 6
months from now. And then, you know,
that 16 months kind of ended in March of
this year.
And I'm staring at a healthy company
that has zero dollars in its checking
account that's carrying hundreds of
thousands of dollars in debt. And I
realized I can't let somebody else try
to do this because nobody cares as much
as I do. I'm the owner. I'm the CEO. The
company was built because of my passion
for the lessons and my passion for the
people that we serve. We are co-owners
of the company together. Gi believes in
me and she trusts me and I can't violate
that trust by continuing to think that
somebody else can do it better. So I
remove that person from their position.
I radically change the company and
within 3 months we are back into a
profitable statement. We are months away
from being able to pay off all the debt
that we had gathered. We'll never get
back the money that we lost and all the
failed investments, but we are on a
trajectory to go in a completely
different direction because I took hold
of my company and made it my company
again. Instead of thinking that I wasn't
qualified or wasn't capable or wasn't
good enough to be the CEO that built the
company, why wouldn't I be good enough
to be the CEO that grows the company?
>> I think a lot of um young founders can
relate to that. I hear that story so
often. I hear that story all the time.
I've heard it for many, many years of
the founder that starts a business and
then basically gets like gaslighted by,
oh, this person's an executive, they've
done it for 26 years, so they must know
what they're doing. I'll give them a
massive salary. I'll give them control.
And then they make a set of decisions
which because you, you know, you've not
walked that path before, you're unable
to have high conviction as to whether
those decisions are good. But because
they are so expensive and their
decisions are so expensive, you kind of
have to go with it. And then eventually
you realize at some point that just
because someone has
worked in some interesting places or had
some previous interesting job titles
doesn't equip them for this challenge.
And especially when it's a small this is
actually the paradox of it as well like
the mentality of success in like big
scale businesses is not the mentality of
success in like a high growth startup
>> you know where you're like penny
pinching.
>> Yeah.
>> Thank you so much. I super enjoyable
hearing the story. It was actually much
more captivating reading your book than
I assumed it would be. Um, and I think
that's because of the level of detail
you go into in the book, which you just
wouldn't have come across before. So, I
really recommend everybody goes and read
it. And thank you again for coming back
here, and it's wonderful to meet you,
Ji, cuz I've heard about you before, but
putting a face to the name is is always
useful. So, thank you so much for being
here and continue doing what you're
doing because you're opening our eyes to
a world that we would otherwise not be
able to see. So, thank you both.
>> Thank you, sir.
>> Thank you.
>> This has always blown my mind a little
bit. 53% of you that listen to the show
regularly haven't yet subscribed to the
show. So, could I ask you for a favor?
If you like the show and you like what
we do here and you want to support us,
the free simple way that you can do just
that is by hitting the subscribe button.
And my commitment to you is if you do
that, then I'll do everything in my
power, me and my team, to make sure that
this show is better for you every single
week. We'll listen to your feedback.
We'll find the guests that you want me
to speak to and we'll continue to do
what we do. Thank you so much.
Heat. Heat. N.
[Music]
Heat. Heat.